THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION THE MEETING
IS BEING HELD IN PERSON AND
ELECTRONICALLY VISU MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC WHO WOULD LIKE TO
COMMENT ON HEARINGS OR OTHER
MATTERS MAY DO SO VIA TELEPHONE
ONLY TO SPEAK DURING ANY OF THE
PUBLIC COMMENT OPPORTUNITIES.
PLEASE CALL EIGHT EIGHT EIGHT
SEVEN EIGHT EIGHT ZERO ZERO
NINE NINE AND AFTER READING IT
AROUND NINE SEVEN EIGHT SIX
FOUR ZERO ONE FOUR FIVE ONE
FIVE THIS INFORMATION IS ALSO
AVAILABLE ON THE PUBLIC AGENDA
AND THE PUBLIC NOTICES SECTION
OF THE CITY WEBSITE AND ON THE
BROADCAST OF THIS MEETING ON
TTN CHANNEL 16 AT&amp;T CHANNEL
NINETY NINE AND ONLINE AT W W W
E TO GOV DOT ORG FORWARD SLASH
WATCH IN MISS THATCHER WE
PLEASE CALL ROYAL COMMISSIONER
QUIJADA HERE.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER FORTNER YOUR
COMMISSIONER EVERSON HERE
COMMISSIONER RIGHT COMMISSIONER
RIGHT HERE.
COMMISSIONER WILLIS HERE.
COMMISSIONER RACHLIN HERE.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER ROSS, YOU HAVE
A QUORUM RIGHT ETC. ONTO ITEM C
APPROVAL OF AGENDA.
ARE THERE ANY ADDITIONS,
DELETIONS OR CHANGES TO
TONIGHT&apos;S AGENDA?
&gt;&gt; SO THE AGENDA IS APPROVED AS
PRESENTED ONTO ITEM D PUBLIC
COMMENT THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE
THAT IS NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC
HEARING ON THIS AGENDA TO
COMMENT ON SUCH OTHER
PRESERVATION MATTERS, PLEASE
CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
AND INTERMEDIATED NINE SEVEN
EIGHT SIX FOUR ZERO ONE FOUR
FIVE ONE FIVE CITY STAFF WILL
SELECT CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED
THEIR HAND ONE BY ONE USING THE
LAST THREE DIGITS OF YOUR PHONE
NUMBER IN ORDER TO
ELECTRONICALLY RAISE YOUR HAND.
PLEASE STAR NINE ON YOUR PHONE
KRISTEN DO WE HAVE ANY CALLERS
?
&gt;&gt; THERE ARE NO CALLERS.
I WILL NOW CLOSE PUBLIC COMMENT
PORTION AND MOVE ON TO ITEM IX
UNFINISHED BUSINESS WHICH I
BELIEVE WE HAVE NO UNFINISHED
BUSINESS ON TONIGHT&apos;S AGENDA
AND ONTO ITEM F HEARINGS F ONE
FIVE FORTY ONE S ASHLEY MISS
THATCHER, WILL YOU PLEASE GIVE
THE STAFF REPORT?
&gt;&gt; CERTAINLY
.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
SHUFFLE HERE A LITTLE BUT GOOD
540 ONESELF ASHLEY IS AN
APPLICATION FOR SOLAR PANELS ON
THE ROOF OF THIS TWO STOREY
QUEEN ANNE IN THE HEART OF THE
OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT
FEATURES A CUT STONE FOUNDATION
STREET FACING GABLE WITH
DECORATIVE TRIM AND SHINGLE
WORK A BOX BAY WINDOW ON THE
FRONT OF A TWO STOREY CROSS
CABLE AND A SIDE ENTRY PORCH
HOUSE FIRST APPEARS IN THE CITY
DIRECTORY IN 1894 AS THE HOME
OF PAINTER CHARLES HEATH AT
NUMBER NINETY FIVE IT IS ON THE
EAST SIDE OF SOUTH ASHLEY
STREET NORTH OF WEST MADISON
AND SOUTH OF WEST JEFFERSON AND
THE APPLICANT IS SEEKING
APPROVAL TO INSTALL A SOLAR
ARRAY CONSISTING OF THREE
SECTIONS OF BLACK ON BLACK
PANELS ON THE ROOF SOUTH AND
EAST FACES.
HERE IS THE HOUSE AND THE
PANELS ARE NOT GOING TO GO
WHERE YOU CAN SEE IN THIS
PHOTO.
SO LET ME GO DOWN.
LET&apos;S SEE.
THIS IS THE NORTH FACING ROOF,
THE SOUTH FACING ON THIS OTHER
SIDE.
SO THERE IS ONE OF THE THREE
SETS OF PANELS IS PROPOSED TO
GO ON THIS ROOF FACE RIGHT HERE
.
ANOTHER ONE IS ON THIS SHORTER
SLOPING OF THAT WE SEE IN THE
BACK HERE.
HERE&apos;S A DIAGRAM THAT&apos;S THE
SHORTER ONE OF THE BACK AND
THEN THERE&apos;S A THIRD SECTION ON
THIS ROOF THAT SHEDS TOWARD THE
REAR OF THE YARD.
THEY ARE BLACK ON BLACK PANELS.
THERE ARE 20 OF THEM TOTAL.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS A PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD APPLICATION AND
THE REASON THAT IT&apos;S HERE TO
NIGHT IS BECAUSE IT IS ON THIS
FRONT SECTION OF THE HOUSE.
IF IT WERE JUST THESE, IT WOULD
BE EITHER SIDE OF THE STREET
AND I&apos;D BE ABLE TO STAFF
APPROVE THEM BUT HERE&apos;S A
BETTER PHOTO ANOTHER PHOTO
OF THAT RUFOUS AND AGAIN THESE
ARE BLACK ON BLACK PANELS.
&gt;&gt; STAFF REALLY DOESN&apos;T HAVE
ANY ISSUES WITH THESE.
THE APPLICANT INCLUDED PHOTO
HERE.
I&apos;M ASSUMING THAT THE METERING
THE OUT YOU THE EXTERIOR STUFF
THAT&apos;S GOING TO GO ON THE HOUSE
IS GOING TO BE NEAR THIS OTHER
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT WHICH IS
OFF OF THE DRIVEWAY BEHIND THE
FRONT PORCH WHICH JUTS OUT A
LITTLE BIT.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS THE VIEW FROM THE
BACK.
HERE&apos;S THAT OTHER ROOF THAT&apos;S
GOING TO GET SOME PANELS AND
FROM THE SECRETARY OF THE
INTERIOR STANDARDS NO.
TWO SAYS THAT THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF A PROPERTY WILL BE
RETAINED OR PRESERVED THE
REMOVAL OF DISTINCTIVE
MATERIALS OR ALTERATION
OF SPEECH OR SPACES IN SPATIAL
RELATIONSHIPS THAT CHARACTERIZE
A PROPERTY WILL BE AVOIDED.
NO SIGN SAYS NEW ADDITIONS,
EXTERIOR ALTERATIONS OR RELATED
NEW CONSTRUCTION WILL NOT
DESTROY HISTORIC MATERIALS THAT
CHARACTERIZE THE PROPERTY.
THE NEW WORK SHALL BE
DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE OLD AND
SHALL BE COMPATIBLE WITH THE
MASSIVE SIZE, SCALE AND
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES TO
PROTECT THE HISTORIC INTEGRITY
OF THE PROPERTY AND ITS
ENVIRONMENT.
NO.10 SAYS NEW ADDITIONS AND
ADJACENT OR RELATED NEW
CONSTRUCTION WILL BE UNDERTAKEN
IN SUCH A MANNER THAT IF
REMOVED IN THE FUTURE THE
ESSENTIAL FORM AN INTEGRITY
OF THE HISTORIC PROPERTY WILL
BE UNIMPAIRED.
STAFF DOES BELIEVE THAT THIS
APPLICATION MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS AND
GUIDELINES.
THE GUIDELINES FOR ROOFS FROM
THE SECRETARY INTERIOR
RECOMMEND IDENTIFYING,
RETAINING AND PRESERVING ROOFS
THAT ARE IMPORTANT IN DEFINING
THE OVERALL HISTORIC CHARACTER
OF THE BUILDING AND THAT FROM
THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR SOLAR
PANELS.
IT&apos;S APPROPRIATE TO MOUNT SOLAR
PANELS AT GRADE OR ON GROUND
POLE MOUNTINGS IN THE ABSENCE
OF AN APPROPRIATE GROUND BASED
MELTING LOCATION PANEL SHOULD
BE MOUNTED ON REAR OR SIDE
FACING ROOF SURFACES.
IT&apos;S ALSO APPROPRIATE TO
INSTALL SERVICE EQUIPMENT ON
THE ROOF RELATED TO THE SOLAR
UNITS AND THE RELATED DEVICES.
SO IT&apos;S INCONSPICUOUS FROM THE
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY AND DOES
NOT DAMAGE OBSCURE CHARACTER
DEFINING FEATURES.
&gt;&gt; SO STAFF DOES RECOMMEND
APPROVAL OF THIS APPLICATION.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU MISS THATCHER MYSELF
AND COMMISSIONER ROSS WERE ON
THE REVIEW COMMITTEE.
I&apos;LL START OUT WITH THE REPORT
.
UM, I THINK THIS IS A VERY
STRAIGHTFORWARD APPLICATION.
THE ONLY VISIBLE PORTION OF THE
SOLAR PANELS IS ON THAT FRONT S
FACING TABLE.
UM, I THINK THE WAY THAT
THEY&apos;RE DEPICTED TO BE ARRANGED
IS APPROPRIATE AND MATCHES ARE
GUIDELINES.
&gt;&gt; UM, THERE WASN&apos;T ANYBODY OUT
THERE TO DISCUSS THE EXACT
LOCATION OF WHERE THE METERING
WOULD GO.
OF COURSE NEXT TO THE EXISTING
UTILITY WOULD BE THE MOST
APPROPRIATE PLACE OTHER
THAN
THAT I DON&apos;T HAVE ANYTHING TO
ADD.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER ROSS, THANK
YOU.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, I AGREE WITH THE CHAIR
AND I AGREE WITH STAFF
REPORTING OF THE SITUATION.
VERY STRAIGHTFORWARD
APPLICATION.
THANK WITH THE APPLICANT PLEASE
ON MEET YOUR MICROPHONE TURN ON
YOUR VIDEO IF POSSIBLE AND
PROVIDE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS
FOR THE RECORD I DON&apos;T OH WAIT
HANG ON ONE SECOND.
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
ELIZABETH, I&apos;M TRYING TO
PROMOTE YOU UP THERE.
I THINK KIRSTEN GOT YOU HIGH WE
GO SORRY TECHNICAL STUFF.
THAT&apos;S OK.
I&apos;M SORRY.
WHAT WOULD WHAT WAS THE
QUESTION?
WELL THERE WAS NO QUESTION THAT
THIS IS NOW YOU HAVE A CHANCE
IF YOU&apos;D LIKE FOR THE FIVE
MINUTES TO ADD ANYTHING TO THE
STAFF REPORT A REVIEW COMMITTEE
REPORT.
&gt;&gt; JUST TALK ABOUT YOUR PROJECT
IF YOU&apos;D LIKE TO ADD OR SAY
ANYTHING FURTHER.
MY NAME&apos;S ELIZABETH FREEDMAN.
I&apos;M ONE OF THE HOMEOWNERS I&apos;M
SPEAKING WITH MY HUSBAND MATT
AS WELL.
WE&apos;RE JUST WE&apos;VE BEEN TRYING TO
TO RETROFIT OUR OUR HOUSE TO BE
MORE ENVIRONMENTALLY
SUSTAINABLE WITHIN THE
GUIDELINES TO ENSURE THAT IT&apos;S
IT&apos;S READY FOR A GOOD FUTURE
BASICALLY TO PRESERVE IT AS
WELL.
AND SO I APPRECIATE EVERYTHING
THAT JILL SAID AND AS FAR AS I
KNOW, THE UTILITIES WILL IN
FACT BE ON THAT WHERE THEY&apos;LL
BE LOCATED OVER BY BY ALL
OF THE REST OF THE ELECTRICAL
EQUIPMENT AND THERE WILL BE
OBSCURED BY THE PORCH AND I
DON&apos;T THINK I HAVE ANYTHING
FURTHER TO ADD.
&gt;&gt; OK, OR COMMISSIONER, DO YOU
HAVE ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE
APPLICANT OR UM I&apos;LL NOT OPEN
THE PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS
ITEM.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THE
APPLICATION AT FIVE FORTY ONE S
ASHLEY CHRISTIAN, DO WE HAVE
ANY CALLERS INDICATING TO SPEAK
ON THIS APPLICATION?
&gt;&gt; THERE ARE NO CALLERS I WILL
CLOSE THE PUBLIC HEARING
PORTION.
OH IS THERE A COMMISSIONER THAT
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION ON
THE APPLICATION?
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER ROCHLIN?
&gt;&gt; I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT FIVE FORTY ONE S
ASHLEY STREET, A CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO INSTALL A
BLACK ON BLACK SOLAR ARRAY AND
THREE SECTIONS AS PROPOSED.
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE IN
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT,
TEXTURE MATERIAL AND
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TO NINE AND TEN AND
THE GUIDELINES FOR ROOFS ENERGY
EFFICIENCY AND MECHANICAL
SYSTEMS AS WELL AS THE ANN
ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES PARTICULARLY AS THEY
PERTAIN TO SOLAR INSTALLATIONS
SUPPORT MOVE COMMISSIONER
ROCKLIN SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER WHITE.
&gt;&gt; THERE ARE DISCUSSION ON THE
MOTION ALREADY TO VOTE OF THOSE
IN FAVOR PLEASE SAY YES YES YES
OF AS OPPOSED PLEASE SAY NO
RIGHT.
THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
PLEASE NOTE THAT YOU MUST APPLY
FOR ANY REQUIRED PERMITS FROM
THE CITY BEFORE BEGINNING YOUR
PROJECT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU ONTO ITEM F TWO
FIVE VOTE TO SECOND STREET
COMMISSIONER RACHLIN WILL BE
RECUSING
FROM THEIR YOU&apos;VE GOT
TO GO ALL THE WAY UP TO THE
GALLERY.
&gt;&gt; YEAH OH HERE THEY ALL RIGHT
ARE WE PLEASE GET THE REPORT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THERE WAS A LATE REVISION TODAY
RECEIVED ON THIS PROJECT.
I DO HAVE THE CORRECT SLIDES IN
THE SLIDE SHOW.
THEY&apos;RE JUST TINY LITTLE
CHANGES AS A RESULT OF THE SITE
VISIT ON MONDAY, MOSTLY
CLARIFYING DIMENSIONS AND
THINGS AND WINDOWS AND TRIM AND
THERE&apos;S A NEW MATERIAL SHEET IF
ANYONE WANTS TO SEE A PAPER
COPY I DO HAVE A PAPER PROBABLY
HERE THAT BE HELPFUL AND ANNA
AND BOB ALREADY HAVE PAPER
COPIES.
BUT LET ME RUN THROUGH THIS
YEAR.
THIS IS A TWO STORY VERNACULAR
HOME THAT FEATURES SIDE GABLES
WEISBORD TRIM IN THE EAVES
DECORATIVE PEAKED HOOD MOLD ON
THE ORIGINAL TWO STOREY PORTION
AND A FORWARD FRONT PORCH WITH
A STONE BASE CONCRETE DECK AND
TAPERED SQUARE COLUMNS.
WE&apos;VE HAD A FEW RECENT STAFF
APPROVALS INCLUDING A NEW
GARAGE ROOF REPLACING THE
HOUSE&apos;S ALUMINUM SIDING WITH
SEVENTIES SIDING AND INSTALLING
NEW STORM WINDOWS SITES ON THE
SOUTHWEST CORNER OF 2ND AND
WEST JEFFERSON STREET.
AND THE APPLICANT IS SEEKING
APPROVAL TO CONSTRUCT A ONE
HUNDRED AND SEVENTY TWO SQUARE
FOOT SECOND FLOOR ADDITION ON
TOP OF A SINGLE STORY REAR WING
.
THE APPLICATION PACKET WAS VERY
THOROUGH.
I&apos;M JUST GOING TO WALK YOU
AROUND THE HOUSE HERE.
LET&apos;S SEE THIS THIS IS FACING
EAST SO THIS IS THE NORTH
ELEVATION HERE ON THE SIDE.
THE THE SIDING REPLACEMENT WAS
APPROVED BY STAFF AND THAT&apos;S
BECAUSE WHEN THEY PULLED THE
ALUMINUM OFF THIS THESE BOARDS
HAVE ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND
LITTLE NAIL HOLES IN THEM.
THAT PLUS THE CONDITION OVERALL
OF THE WOOD WHICH WAS BRITTLE
AND QUITE POOR AND BECAUSE NOT
ORIGINAL SIDING CAN BE REPLACED
WITH NOT ORIGINAL SIDING IF THE
THE THE CONDITION UNDERNEATH
WARRANTS IT THERE IS A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
FOR REPLACEMENT WITH
SEMIOTICIAN SIDING IN THE SAME
REVEAL IT&apos;S A FIVE INCH REVEAL
THE TRIM WOULD ALSO BE
CEMETARIES.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS THIS IS THE THIS IS
THE BACK OF THE HOUSE WHICH IS
VERY VISIBLE SINCE THIS IS
JEFFERSON STREET HERE TO THE
LEFT EVERYTHING THAT YOU&apos;RE
LOOKING AT IS FROM THE PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE.
THERE HAVE BEEN NO ADDITIONS
AFTER NINETEEN FORTY FOUR ON
THIS HOUSE.
YOU KNOW THIS LITTLE PORCH WAS
PROBABLY REBUILT BUT ALL OF THE
ALL THE FLOOR AREA IS FROM THE
PERIOD OF SIGNIFICANCE WALKING
AROUND NOW WE&apos;RE ON THE THIS IS
A SMALL SORT OF HOUSE.
THIS IS WHERE THE ADDITION IS
PROPOSED TO GO.
IT WOULD SIT RIGHT ON TOP HERE
AND THIS IS THE HISTORIC
WINDOW.
IT WOULD BE MOVED OVER BECAUSE
THERE&apos;S A LITTLE EXTRA SECTION
IN HERE.
LET ME SEE IF I GOT A BETTER
PICTURE OF IT.
AND THERE THIS IS A DIFFERENT
WALL PLAIN THAN THIS AND THEY
NEEDED TO GET THIS THIS CORNER
THIS BEARING WALL TO PUT THE
ADDITION ON SO THIS WINDOW WILL
GET SLID OVER.
&gt;&gt; THERE ARE A LOT MORE PHOTOS
COMING SO THIS WILL MAKE A
LITTLE MORE SENSE IN A MINUTE.
THIS IS LOOKING DOWN THE SOUTH
SIDE OF THE HOUSE.
THAT TREE IS VERY CONVENIENTLY
IN BLOOM RIGHT IN FRONT OF THE
HOUSE AND THEN THERE WAS A LOT
OF INFORMATION SUBMITTED BY THE
APPLICANT IN 1899.
YOU SEE THIS IS A TWO STORY
SQUARE WITH SOME ONE STORY
WINGS ON THE BACK, MUCH
OF WHICH BECAME TWO STORIES AT
SOME POINT BY NIGHT AND THEN BY
NINETEEN THIRTY ONE THEY HAD
TORN DOWN THIS ONE STOREY ROOM
ON THE BACK AND CONSTRUCTED A
GARAGE AND A LITTLE BACK PORCH
.
THERE IS EVIDENCE OF WHAT THE
HOUSE ORIGINALLY LOOKED LIKE
THINGS LIKE A NINE AND A HALF
INCH THICK WALL ON THE INTERIOR
WHICH INDICATES THAT THIS
PROBABLY USED TO BE AN EXTERIOR
WALL AND SOME REMNANTS
OF FRAMING AND WALLPAPER OR IN
ODD PLACES HERE IT WAS WITH
ALUMINUM SIDING AND THIS WAS
TAKEN DOWN LAST YEAR TO AND THE
THE CHANGE IN THE APPEARANCE
OF THE HOUSE I THOUGHT WAS
QUITE DRAMATIC.
THERE&apos;S THERE&apos;S INFORMATION ON
OTHER RESTORATION WORK THAT
THEY&apos;LL BE DOING AND
REPLICATION THE SIDING IN SEVEN
TISH&apos;S AND THE THE TRIM.
HERE&apos;S THAT LITTLE CONNECTOR
YOU CAN SEE BETTER HERE HOW
WE&apos;VE GOT THIS TWO STOREY BLOCK
AND THEN THIS LITTLE PIECE AND
THEN THIS WALL POPS OUT FROM
THE OTHER ONE.
&gt;&gt; OK, IF YOU TO SEE THESE
PICTURES I CAN REFERENCE THEM.
GO BACK UP THERE LATER.
HERE IS RENDERINGS SHOWING THE
EDITION WHICH IS HERE YOU CAN
SEE THAT THE TRIM FROM THAT
SHED ROOF ON THE ONE STOREY
WING IS KEPT TO HELP
DIFFERENTIATE IT AND THERE ARE
TWO WINDOWS THAT YOU CAN SEE
VISIBLE HERE.
THIS ONE IS CENTERED AND AT THE
SAME HEIGHT AS THIS GUY OVER
HERE, I BELIEVE THAT THEY ARE
THE SAME DIMENSIONS AND THIS
SQUARE HERE MIRRORS THESE THIS
ROW PIANO WINDOWS ON THE FIRST
FLOOR BUT YOU CAN SEE THAT THE
WALL HAS BEEN INSET HERE IN
ORDER TO DISTINGUISH IT FROM
THE ORIGINAL AND TO KEEP THIS
REAR CORNER OF THE HOUSE
DISTINCT.
OK, THAT&apos;S THE EXISTING SITE
PLAN GARAGES OVER HERE.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS WHERE THE ADDITION
IS GOING TO GO.
THERE IT IS EXISTING FIRST
FLOOR PLAN THAT WILL REMAIN
UNCHANGED.
HERE&apos;S THE EXISTING SECOND
FLOOR PLAN RIGHT NOW.
YOU SEE THAT THE SECOND FLOOR
CUTS IN HERE THIS IS THE ROOF
OF THE ONE STORY ONE BELOW AND
HERE IT IS WITH EDITION SITTING
ON TOP OF THAT ONE STOREY WING
HERE IS THAT NOTCH IN THAT I
POINTED OUT A MINUTE AGO IN THE
RENDERING THAT KEEPS THIS
CORNER DISTINCT AND IT IS SET
IN A FOOT AND A HALF EXISTING
ROOF PLANNED PROPOSED ROOF PLAN
ON THE RIGHT MATCHING THE
OF THE S GABAL
EXISTING ON THE
LEFT PROPOSED ON THE RIGHT IT&apos;S
IT&apos;S THIS PIECE HERE IS THE
ADDITION ON THE NORTH SIDE YOU
WON&apos;T SEE ANY CHANGES ON THE
WEST SIDE OR REAR.
THERE&apos;S THE ADDITION TIES IN
JUST BELOW THE RIDGE A LITTLE
BIT AND IS SHORTER THAN THE
HIGHEST RIDGE ON THE TWO STOREY
PORTION OF THE HOUSE RIGHT NOW
.
AND HERE THOSE WINDOWS THIS
ONE&apos;S THIRTY BY SIXTY THIS
ONE&apos;S THIRTY TWO BY FIFTY NINE
VERY CLOSE BUT NOT AN EXACT
MATCH.
HERE&apos;S THAT HISTORIC WINDOW
THAT&apos;S GETTING SLID OVER TO BE
CENTERED ON THE REMAINING SPACE
HERE AND THE TRIM WILL REMAIN
THE ROOF OVERHANG THERE&apos;S A LOT
MORE INFORMATION HERE ON
MATERIALS.
THIS IS THIS IS NEW AND IT&apos;S
MOSTLY I CAN ALWAYS GO BACK UP
TO THIS IF YOU WANT BUT IT&apos;S
IT&apos;S IT&apos;S MATCHING VERY CLOSELY
.
LET&apos;S SEE.
I WANT TO CHECK AND SEE IF
THESE ARE REALLY MATCHING
EXACTLY.
OR IF IT&apos;S THE FASCIAS ONE BY
SIX THE NEW FEATURE WILL BE ONE
BY FIVE AND A HALF FREEZE.
BUT ON THE SECOND STORY ONE BY
TEN ONE BY EIGHT ON THE FIRST
STORY FREEZE WILL BE ONE BY
FIVE POINT FIVE ON THE
ADDITION.
SO THE DIMENSIONS OF THE TRIM
ARE SHRUNK A LITTLE BIT WHICH
IS APPRECIATED BECAUSE THAT&apos;LL
HELP DISTINGUISH IT BUT IT WILL
STILL BE VERY COMPATIBLE.
THIS IS A CUTAWAY OF THE THE
PORTION OF THE EDITION THAT YOU
CAN&apos;T REALLY SEE THAT&apos;S IN THAT
NOTCH.
I&apos;VE ALREADY READ TWO NUMBERS
ONE AND TWO AND FIVE AND NINE
AND TEN.
&gt;&gt; SO THE SECRETARY INTERIOR&apos;S
GUIDELINES FOR ADDITIONS
RECOMMEND CONSTRUCTING A NEW
ADDITIONS.
THERE&apos;S THE LEAST POSSIBLE LOSS
OF HISTORIC MATERIALS THAT
CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURES ARE
NOT OBSCURED, DAMAGED OR
DESTROYED.
AND CONSIDERING THE ATTACHED
EXTERIOR EDITION IN TERMS
OF THE NEW USE AND THE
APPEARANCE OF OTHER BUILDINGS
IN THE HISTORIC DISTRICT OR
NEIGHBORHOOD, DESIGN FOR THE
NEWARK MAY BE CONTEMPORARY OR A
REFERENCE DESIGN MOTIFS FROM
THE HISTORIC BUILDING IT&apos;S
RECOMMENDED TO LOCATE THE
ATTACHED EXTERIOR EDITION THE
REAR ON AN INCONSPICUOUS SIDE
OF A HISTORIC BUILDING AND
LIMIT ITS SIZE AND SCALE
RELATIONSHIP TO THE HISTORIC
BUILDING ALSO DESIGNING NEW
ADDITIONS IN A MANNER THAT
MAKES CLEAR WHAT&apos;S HISTORIC AND
WHAT IS NEW.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S NOT RECOMMENDED TO LOSE
CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURES OR
A DESIGN A NEW ADDITIONS THAT
ITS SIZE AND SCALE ARE OUT
OF PROPORTION.
THUS DIMINISHING THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER IT&apos;S APPROPRIATE TO
PLACE A NEW ADDITION ON A NON
CHARACTER DEFINING OUR
INCONSPICUOUS ELEVATION AND
LIMITING THE SIZE AND SCALE IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE HISTORIC
PROPERTY.
THESE ARE FROM THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES AND A PLACE NEW
WALLS IN A DIFFERENT PLANE FROM
THE HISTORIC STRUCTURE IN A
SUBORDINATE POSITION TO THE
HISTORIC FABRIC TO IT&apos;S
APPROPRIATE TO LIMIT THE SIZE
AND SCALE OF THE ADDITIONS IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE HISTORIC
BUILDINGS SO IT DOES NOT
DIMINISH OR VISUALLY OVERPOWER
THE BUILDING OR THE DISTRICT.
THE ADDITIONS FOOTPRINT SHOULD
EXCEED NEITHER HALF OF THE
ORIGINAL BUILDING&apos;S FOOTPRINT
NOR HALF OF THE ORIGINAL
BUILDINGS TOTAL FLOOR AREA AND
I HAVE THAT IN THE STAFF
FINDINGS THE TOTAL INCREASE IN
FLOOR AREAS NINE PERCENT AND IN
THE FOOTPRINT IS ZERO PERCENT.
IT&apos;S NOT APPROPRIATE TO DESIGN
AN ADDITION THAT OVERPOWERS OR
DRAMATICALLY ALTERS THE
ORIGINAL BUILDING THROUGH SIZE
OR HEIGHT.
ALL RIGHT, LET&apos;S SEE
THERE IS
ONE SMALL ONE OVER ONE WINDOW
THAT WOULD BE REMOVED AS A
RESULT OF THIS THIS ONE
AND
WITH IN MY STAFF REPORT I HAD
MENTIONED THAT THERE WASN&apos;T A
LOT OF DIFFERENTIATION IN THE
TRIM AND THE WINDOW SIZES BUT
NOW THAT THAT HAS BEEN
ADDRESSED IN THESE NEW DRAWING,
STAFF DOES RECOMMEND APPROVAL
OF THE APPLICATION AND BELIEVES
IT MEETS ALL OF THE SECRETARY
OF INTERIOR STANDARDS AND
GUIDELINES AND ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER ROSS AND
MYSELF.
WE&apos;RE ON THE REVIEW COMMITTEE.
&gt;&gt; ROSS WOULD DO IT TO GIVE YOU
A CERTAIN SO JUST TO START OFF
GENERALLY SPEAKING SO THAT THE
HOUSE IS AT AN INTERSECTION AT
SECOND AND JEFFERSON.
YEAH.
SO TO THAT HIGHLY VISIBLE
LOCATION BUT DUE TO THE
PLACEMENT AND SCALE OF THE
ADDITION, EVEN THOUGH IT SITS
AT AN INTERSECTION IT&apos;LL BE
FAIRLY WELL CONCEALED SO SO WE
DID JUST IN TERMS OF LIKE
WALKING AROUND THE HOUSE
TALKING WITH ARCHITECT THE
HOMEOWNER EVERYTHING I GUESS IN
MY OPINION SEEMED TO MAKE SENSE
IN TERMS OF GETTING THE
STANDARDS.
LIKE I SAID IT APPROPRIATELY
SCALED IT SORT OF REALLY GOOD
LOCATION THE MATERIALITY IS
FINE.
JUST THE ONE QUESTION THAT WE
HAD WITH THE ORIGINAL PROPOSAL
IS JUST THAT THE DESIGN MADE AT
LEAST A FEW NODS SO THAT WAS
CLEAR THAT THIS WAS ACTUALLY AN
ADDITION VERSUS AN ORIGINAL
PART OF THE HOUSE BECAUSE THE
SITING IS GOING TO BE HARDY AND
THEN THE SIDING IN THE HOME IS
GOING TO BE HARDY.
SO IT&apos;S GOING TO BE KIND OF ALL
FLAT DON&apos;T ONE MATERIAL INTO
THE BODY.
&gt;&gt; OH, THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; SO YEAH.
SO GENERALLY SPEAKING THE
ADDITION WAS DESIGNED SO WELL
TO FIT IN THAT THERE WERE SOME
INITIAL QUESTIONS IN THE FIELD
AROUND LIKE OK HOW ARE WE GOING
TO BE ABLE TO TELL THAT THIS IS
GOING TO THAT THIS IS ACTUALLY
THE ADDITION?
&gt;&gt; SO IT SOUNDS LIKE THE
ARCHITECT AFTER THAT DISCUSSION
HAS MADE COUPLE YOU KNOW, A FEW
KIND OF TWEAKS TO THE DESIGN TO
REALLY MOSTLY TO THE TRIM AND
THE OPERATION OF THE WINDOWS TO
AT LEAST IN IN THAT LITTLE
NOTCH TO DIFFERENTIATE THE
ADDITION IS NEW.
SO IN MY OPINION I THINK IT&apos;S
IT&apos;S IT&apos;S MEETS THE STANDARDS I
AGREE WITH THE STAFF REPORT AND
WITH THE COMMISSIONER ROSS&apos;S
STATEMENTS THAT AGAIN THAT THAT
HIGHLY VISIBLE NATURE AND I
WOULD SAY THE SITE IN THE WAY
THAT THIS HOUSE SITS ESPECIALLY
IN RELATION TO THE GARAGE ANY
OTHER SORT OF ADDITIONS I THINK
WOULD MAKE WOULD BE REALLY
DIFFICULT AND I THINK THAT THIS
WAS WAS DONE REALLY WELL.
I THINK IT MEETS ALL THE
GUIDELINES THE ONLY ONE THAT
MAYBE YOU KNOW, SITS ON THE
HINGE OF IS THE THE SETBACKS.
BUT I THINK, YOU KNOW, VIEWING
FROM THE SOUTHWEST FROM
JEFFERSON READING GABLE THE NEW
GABAL IN THE SAME PLANE AS THE
EXISTING HOUSE.
GABAL IT GAVE ME A LITTLE BIT
OF A PAUSE SO TO SPEAK BUT I
THINK IT&apos;S COMMISSIONER ROSS
INDICATED, YOU KNOW, STARTING
TO CHANGE THE THE FREEBOARD
DIMENSIONS AND THE WINDOW
DIMENSIONS AND OPERATIONS I
THINK I THINK HELPS AND THEN UM
THE NOTCH ESPECIALLY FROM THE
REAR SIDE WHERE YOU&apos;RE LOOKING
FROM THE DRIVEWAY FROM I&apos;M
SORRY THIS THIS SIDE IS FROM
THE OTHER SIDE IS FROM
JEFFERSON.
&gt;&gt; CORRECT?
&gt;&gt; YES.
YES.
SO I MISSPOKE BEFORE SO FROM
HERE FROM SECOND INITIALLY
THERE WAS IT LOOKS VERY SIMILAR
BUT I THINK YOU KNOW, LOOKING
FROM THE DRIVEWAY SIDE WHICH IS
ACTUALLY A LITTLE MORE VISIBLE
COMING DOWN JEFFERSON I THINK
HAVING THE LITTLE NOTCH IN THE
BACK WHERE THE CLOSET IS ON THE
INSIDE REALLY HELPS DISTINGUISH
THAT THIS IS A LITTLE BIT
DIFFERENT FROM FROM THE REST
OF THE HOUSE.
UM, THE MAIN POINT THAT THE
ARCHITECT WANTED TO MAKE WAS
THAT IT&apos;S COMPATIBLE BUT THAT
YOU CAN STILL START TO
DISTINGUISH.
SO I THINK MAKING THOSE CHANGES
TO THE FRETBOARD IN THE TRIM IS
HELPFUL.
UM, THERE WERE SOME WE HAD SOME
DISCUSSION ABOUT THE
INTERSECTION OF THE ROOFLINES
UM BECAUSE AS YOU CAN SEE IN
THE IMAGE IT IS ON THE SCREEN
THE THE EVE OF THE GABLE, THE
ORIGINAL DOES TIE IN TO THE
EITHER THE THE CABLE AND THE
EXISTING WEIGHT BUT THAT IS
BECAUSE OF YOU END UP WITH A
WEIRD ROOF INTERSECTION IF YOU
DIDN&apos;T HAVE THAT SO THERE WOULD
BE MORE ISSUES.
SO WE REALLY KIND OF TALK
THROUGH EVERYTHING AND I THINK
THAT IT&apos;S OVERALL IT&apos;S SUCH A
SMALL UH, ADDITION TO THE
HOUSE.
&gt;&gt; I THINK IT&apos;S DONE WELL AND I
THINK IT MAKES UH WITH THE
APPLICANT PLEASE YOUR
MICROPHONE TURN ON YOUR VIDEO
IF POSSIBLE AND PROVIDE YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD
AND YOU HAVE UP TO FIVE MINUTES
TO SPEAK IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO
ADD ANYTHING TO THE STAFF
REPORT.
HI, I&apos;M SCOTT MITTERMEIER.
I&apos;M APPLYING FOR THIS ON BEHALF
OF MYSELF AND MY WIFE CHELSEA
CAN&apos;T BE HERE RIGHT NOW.
DON&apos;T HAVE A LOT TO ADD.
JILL, YOU COVERED IT ALL.
THANK YOU FOR BEING SO
THOROUGH.
I HAD NO IDEA YOU WERE GOING TO
PREPARE SO MUCH BEYOND WHAT
WE&apos;VE PREPARED.
SO THANK YOU AND THANK YOU.
COMMISSIONERS&apos; EPICENTER US FOR
COMING AND VISITING THE OTHER
DAY.
WE&apos;RE REALLY EXCITED ABOUT THE
PROJECT.
WE THINK WE&apos;VE GOT A FANTASTIC
ARCHITECT AND IT&apos;S ONE OF THE
MAYBE ADD A CAVEAT WHICH IS
THAT THE HOUSE JUST REALLY
LOOKS AWFUL RIGHT NOW.
I&apos;VE SPENT A LOT OF TIME ON A
LADDER TRYING TO JAM A LITTLE
FLASHING CARDS INTO THE HOLE SO
THAT THESE DON&apos;T MAKE A NEST IN
THE HOUSE OVER THE SUMMER.
SO IT LOOKS AWFUL AND I THAT
MIGHT GIVE OFF THE PERCEPTION
THAT WE DON&apos;T CARE ABOUT THE
NEIGHBORHOOD OR THE HOUSE WE
REALLY DO.
THIS WAS KIND OF A GIVEN MOUSE
A COOKIE THING WHERE WE THOUGHT
WHAT IF WE PULLED OUT CITING
WHAT WOULD BE UNDERNEATH AND IT
TURNED TO BE A LOT MORE
EXCITING THAN THAN WE THOUGHT
SO WE&apos;RE EXCITED ABOUT THE
PROJECT AND I&apos;LL BE HERE TO
ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS ON BEHALF
OF THE ARCHITECT WHO&apos;S RECUSED
HIMSELF.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU AGAIN FOR
CONSIDERING OUR APPLICATION
COMMISSIONERS.
DO YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS FOR
THE APPLICANT
?
&gt;&gt; OH NO.
RIGHT.
UH, OPEN THE PUBLIC HEARING
PORTION FOR THIS ITEM.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THE
APPLICATION AT FIVE TO SECOND.
KRISTEN, DO WE HAVE ANY CALLERS
HERE ARE NO CALLERS.
&gt;&gt; I WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING PORTION.
UH, IS THERE A COMMISSIONER
THAT WILL WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A
MOTION?
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER FORTNER
?
OK, I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT 5.2 SECOND
STREET, A CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY
IN THE OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC
DISTRICT TO CONSTRUCT ONE
HUNDRED AND SEVENTY TWO SQUARE
FOOT REAR ADDITION AS PROPOSED
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE AND
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS ONE, TWO, FIVE, NINE
AND TEN AND THE GUIDELINES FOR
ADDITIONS AND BUILDING SITE AND
THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR ADDITIONS
.
SECOND MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
FORTNER SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER WHITE.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE A DISCUSSION ON THE
MOTION?
&gt;&gt; I JUST WANT TO COMMENT THAT
I APPRECIATE THE THOROUGHNESS
OF THE APPLICATION.
IT WAS VERY CLEAR TO UNDERSTAND
WHAT WAS BEING PROPOSED AND UM
AND TO TO HELP CLARIFY THOSE
DISTINCTIONS THAT UH,
COMMISSIONERS ROSS AND EPPERSON
WERE TALKING ABOUT QUESTIONING
IN THE FIELD OF ALL THE
MATERIALS ARE GOING TO BE SO
SIMILAR.
HOW DO WE KNOW WHAT&apos;S GOING ON,
WHAT&apos;S HISTORIC, WHAT&apos;S NEW?
AND I THINK KIND OF THE DETAILS
OF MAINTAINING THAT SINGLE
STORY FORM AND THE ROOF EDGE
OF WHAT THIS EDITION IS SITTING
ON TOP OF HELPS ALSO CLARIFY
THAT AND GIVE CLUES TO THOSE
LOOKING AT AT THE NEW EDITION.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT, EVERYONE READY
FOR A VOTE NEXT YEAR THE
COMMISSIONER A QUICK QUESTION
FOR MISS THATCHER.
SO BECAUSE THE REVISIONS WERE
MADE KIND OF LAST MINUTE, DO WE
NEED TO TWEAK ANYTHING IN
MOTION OR SHOULD THAT COVER THE
LAST MINUTE REVISIONS?
&gt;&gt; I THINK COVERED SINCE I
PRESENTED THEM AND THEY WERE
DISTRIBUTED IF YOU FEEL
UNCOMFORTABLE WITH THAT AT ALL,
YOU CAN ALWAYS ADD AS REVISED
INTO MOTION NO, I THINK WE&apos;RE
GOOD.
THANK YOU RIGHT.
ALL OF THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY YES.
YES OF THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY
NO.
THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
PLEASE NOTE THAT YOU MUST APPLY
FOR ANY REQUIRED PERMITS FROM
THE CITY BEFORE BEGINNING YOUR
PROJECT.
THANKS GOD.
THANK YOU.
APPRECIATE YOUR TIME RIGHT NOW
ON ONTO ITEM SOMEBODY NEED TO
GO GET DAVITA&apos;S HOAGUE I WANT
TO EP THREE TWELVE TWENTY THREE
TREVER SHALL WE PLEASE GIVE MR.
NO NO NOT THAT I HAD A FEELING
I WAS GOING TO HAVE POPPED IN.
OH MAN I&apos;M GOING TO GO THIS WAY
AND HE&apos;S GOING TO COME OUT
OF IT.
OH LOOK AROUND
.
ALL RIGHT ONE TWO TWO THREE
FAVOR STREET IS IN THE BROADWAY
HISTORIC DISTRICT THIS IS THE
CIRCA EIGHTEEN FORTIES JACOB
ARMSTRONG HOUSE TO ONE AND A
HALF STOREY GREEK REVIVAL IN A
RARE HEN AND CHICKS FORM YOU
CAN&apos;T SEE THE CHICKS VERY WELL
IN THIS PHOTO HERE.
IT MAY HAVE BEEN MOVED FROM
ANOTHER SITE ON TREVER IT WAS
FIRST OWNED BY JACOB ARMSTRONG
WHO LIVED IN NEW YORK AND ARE
FROM NEW YORK.
ARMSTRONG, HIS SONS AND
GRANDSONS ALL WORKED AS
CARPENTERS IN ANN ARBOR IN
TWENTY TWENTY ONE THE HGC
DETERMINED THAT THE GARAGE IS A
CONTRIBUTING STRUCTURE AND IN
TWENTY TWENTY TWO THE FDA
APPROVED AN APPLICATION AND A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
TO RAISE THE HOUSE 16 INCHES AT
THREE BASEMENT WINDOWS AND
CONSTRUCT A REAR ONE HUNDRED
AND FIFTY SQUARE FOOT ADDITION
SITES ON THE WEST SIDE
OF TRAVERSE STREET NORTH
OF BOWEN AND SOUTH OF HERE THE
APPLICANT IS SEEKING APPROVAL
TO MOVE THE HOUSE FOUR FEET TO
THE NORTH IN ORDER TO PROTECT
TWO SILVER MAPLE TREES AND A
BLACK WALNUT TREE AT LEAST ONE
OF WHICH IS FROM THE PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE AND PROBABLY
THREE AND TWO TO REDESIGN A
PREVIOUSLY APPROVED ADDITION TO
REMOVE A CORNER INSET AT THE
REAR CORNER OF THE HOUSE.
SO FIRST WE WILL GO THROUGH THE
TREES AND MOVING THE HOUSE SO
THE APPLICANT CAN TELL YOU MORE
ABOUT THIS BUT WHEN THEY GOT
THEIR CONTRACTORS OUT THAT
WOULD DIG THE BASEMENT AND MOVE
LIFT THE HOUSE AND THINGS LIKE
THAT.
THEY SAID THAT THERE WAS A
DECENT CHANCE THAT THESE TWO
SILVER MAPLES ALONG THE FENCE
AND THEN ONE OFF IN THE
DISTANCE WHICH IS A BLACK
WALNUT WOULD BE IMPACTED BY
THIS CONSTRUCTION WORK AND
POSSIBLY MAY OR MAY NOT KILL
THEM MEMORY NOT WEAKEN THEM
ENOUGH THAT THEY TIP OVER.
THIS IS ONE OF THE SILVER
MAPLES YOU SEE THESE ARE BIG
TREES.
WHEN I REACHED AROUND I COULD
NOT TOUCH MY HANDS ON THE OTHER
SIDE AND THIS IS THE ONE IN THE
BACK.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS THE BLACK WALNUT,
THE LARGEST OF THE THREE.
&gt;&gt; THERE&apos;S ANOTHER SHOT OF IT.
YOU CAN KIND OF SEE THE TREES
OVER THE TOP HERE.
THIS PHOTO&apos;S JUST INCLUDED
BECAUSE THE PROPOSAL IS TO LIFT
THE WHOLE HOUSE UP WHICH
THEY&apos;RE DOING ANYWAY AND THEN
JUST SLIDE IT OVER FOUR FEET SO
IT WOULD BE FOUR FEET CLOSER ON
THIS SIDE TO THE CURRENT
DRIVEWAY.
HERE&apos;S A SHOT FROM THE BACK
JUST YOU&apos;LL PROBABLY RECALL
THIS FROM OUR JANUARY AGENDA A
COUPLE OF SHOTS OF THE BACK
OF THE HOUSE AND THEN THERE
WERE MORE PHOTOS OF THE TREES
IN THE PACKET.
THIS IS A PHOTO FROM NINETEEN
NINETY TWO IT WAS IN SUSAN
WEINBERG AND SUSAN MARJORIE
READS BOOK HISTORIC BUILDINGS
ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
IT&apos;S IT&apos;S AN INTERESTING PHOTO
BECAUSE YOU CAN SEE THAT IT WAS
IT WAS TAKEN BEFORE THIS VERY
EARLY CHTEAUNEUF EDITION OR IT
SHOWS UP IN NINETEEN FORTY
SEVEN AERIALS AT LEAST WAS
REMOVED AND REBUILT AND NOW
CURRENTLY WHERE IT WAS REBUILT
WHERE THIS FREEBOARD STOPPED
THERE IS A CORNER THAT WAS
EXPOSED WHEN IT WAS RIPPED OFF
AND THAT CORNER WAS PRESERVED
AND THERE&apos;S A LITTLE BIT OF AN
INSET THERE TODAY UH COULD
PROBABLY SEE IT RIGHT HERE IT&apos;S
THIS BROAD THAT&apos;S NOT A VERY
GOOD PHOTO.
&gt;&gt; ANOTHER INTERESTING THING
ABOUT US IS THAT THE FRONT IS
IS WOOD SHINGLES.
THESE ARE ROWS OF SHINGLES.
I DON&apos;T KNOW IF THAT WAS
ORIGINAL TO THE HOUSE OR NOT,
BUT I DON&apos;T BELIEVE THAT
THEY&apos;RE THERE NOW THOUGH THE
APPLICANTS CAN CORRECT ME IF
I&apos;M WRONG, BUT IT&apos;S JUST
SOMETHING THAT I&apos;VE NEVER
NOTICED ABOUT THIS HOUSE BEFORE
.
HERE&apos;S A SLIGHTLY EARLIER PHOTO
FROM NINETEEN SEVENTY FOUR.
THIS IS A GOOD ONE BECAUSE IT
SHOWS THE RELATIONSHIP WITH THE
NEIGHBORING HOUSE.
PEOPLE OFTEN THINK OF THESE TWO
HOUSES TOGETHER THEY WEREN&apos;T
BUILT THE SAME TIME OR BY THE
SAME PERSON BUT THEY HAVE BOTH
BEEN THERE FOR A VERY LONG TIME
AND THIS IS A LITTLE BIT MORE
SIMPLISTIC VIEW WITHOUT FENCES
AND THE GARAGES BACK THERE YOU
JUST OUT OF THE PHOTO AND IT&apos;S
JUST NOT VERY BUSY AND AND YOU
CAN REALLY SEE THE WINGS ON THE
ON THE CHICKS AND THE HEN AND
AGAIN THERE&apos;S THAT STRANGE SHED
ROOF ADDITIONS THAT THEY TOOK
OFF THE BACK AND REBUILT.
OK, HERE&apos;S THAT CORNER THAT I
WAS JUST TRYING TO EXPLAIN TO
YOU.
THESE ARE PHOTOS OF THAT SHED
ROOF EDITION, THAT ONE ACROSS
THE BACK THERE WAS ANOTHER
EDITION HERE THAT HAS ALREADY
BEEN REMOVED IN THIS PHOTO AND
NOW THE WHOLE THING IS
COMPLETELY OFF AND YOU CAN SEE
THE THE THE EDGE OF THE CHICK
HERE WHERE THEY&apos;VE REBUILT THE
CORNER AND IT&apos;S INSET RIGHT
HERE AND THIS PHOTO.
ALL RIGHT.
NOW WE&apos;RE MOVING ON TO TALK
ABOUT THE CORNER INSET.
THIS IS THIS IS ONE CAR THAT
EXISTS.
THIS IS THE CURRENT FLOORPLAN
AND THIS IS THE NEW FLOORPLAN.
&gt;&gt; HANG ON A SECOND.
I GOT TO GO BACK NEW MAIN FLOOR
FLOORPLAN AND THIS IS THE
PROPOSED SO THIS IS THE
EXISTING NOTCH AT THE BACK THE
THE CHICK AND RIGHT NOW THE
APPROVED PLANS SHOW ANOTHER
NOTCH HERE BUT IT&apos;S BEEN PULLED
OUT AND SQUARED OFF
.
HERE&apos;S THE EXISTING NOTCH.
THIS IS THE EXISTING FLOOR
PLAN.
THIS IS THE PROPOSED WITHOUT
THIS WALL BEING INSET I THINK
IT WAS SIX INCHES OR A FOOT ON
THE ORIGINAL APPLICATION
EXISTING EAST ELEVATION
PROPOSED YOU SEE THE FOUNDATION
IS HIGHER HERE.
IT&apos;S VERY LOW TO THE GROUND
HERE.
IT&apos;S UP 16 INCHES.
HERE&apos;S THE EXISTING NORTH
ELEVATION AND HERE&apos;S THE
PROPOSAL FOR THERE WOULD STILL
BE SOME DIFFERENTIATION BETWEEN
THE ROOF LINES HERE BECAUSE
THIS ADDITION IS REALLY JUST A
SQUARE THOUGH THIS WALL PLAIN
WOULD BE THE SAME.
THERE&apos;S OR WOULD NO LONGER BE A
NOTCH HERE.
THERE WOULD BE DIFFERENT IN THE
ROOF STYLE AND HEIGHT.
THIS IS THE BACK OF THE HOUSE.
THIS IS WHAT IT WOULD LOOK LIKE
FROM THE BACK S ELEVATION.
THERE ARE NO CHANGES SO LET ME
GO THROUGH THE STANDARDS AND
THEN I THINK I HAVE SOME
COMMENTS FOR YOU.
NO ONE SAYS THAT A PROPERTY
WILL BE USED AS IT WAS
HISTORICALLY OR BE GIVEN A NEW
USE THAT REQUIRES MINIMAL
CHANGE TO ITS DISTINCTIVE
MATERIALS FEATURE SPACES AND
SPATIAL RELATIONSHIPS.
I HAVE ALREADY READ TO NINE AND
TEN TO YOU OH LET&apos;S SEE.
&gt;&gt; SO FROM THE SECRETARY
OF INTERIOR&apos;S GUIDELINES IT&apos;S
RECOMMENDED TO DESIGN NEW
ADDITIONS IN A MANNER THAT
MAKES CLEAR WHAT IS HISTORIC
AND WHAT IS NEW.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S FROM FROM THE
GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING SITE.
IT&apos;S RECOMMENDED TO RETAIN THE
HISTORIC RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN
BUILDINGS, LANDSCAPE FEATURES
AND OPEN SPACE AND TO PRESERVE
IMPORTANT LANDSCAPE FEATURES
INCLUDING ONGOING MAINTENANCE
OF HISTORIC PLANT MATERIAL ALSO
NOT RECOMMENDED IS LOCATED
LOCATING NEW CONSTRUCTION ON
THE BUILDING SITE WHERE
IMPORTANT LANDSCAPE FEATURES
WILL BE DAMAGED OR DESTROYED
FROM THE GUIDELINES FOR
DISTRICT OR NEIGHBORHOOD
SETTING THIS IS VERY SIMILAR.
IT&apos;S RECOMMENDED TO RETAIN THE
HISTORIC RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN
BUILDINGS AND LANDSCAPE
FEATURES OF THE SETTING FROM
THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR ADDITIONS
IT&apos;S APPROPRIATE TO LOCATE A
REQUIRED ADDITION ON THE LEASED
CHARACTER DEFINING ELEVATION
KEEPING IT SUBORDINATE
DESIGNING AN ADDITION THAT
MAKES IT CLEAR WHAT IS HISTORIC
AND WHAT IS NEW AND FROM THE
ANN ARBOR GUIDELINES FOR
LANDSCAPE FEATURES IT&apos;S
APPROPRIATE TO RETAIN AND
MAINTAIN MATURE TREES, HEDGES
AND OTHER HISTORIC PLANTINGS
AND TO RETAIN THE HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN BUILDINGS.
I&apos;M SORRY I THINK I SAID THAT
LIKE FOUR TIMES JUST NOW.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S NOT APPROPRIATE TO
REMOVE MATURE TREES, HEDGES AND
OTHER HISTORIC LANDSCAPING ALL
ZOOMING BACK UP.
I WOULD LIKE THIS JUST FOUND
THIS ONE TODAY.
&gt;&gt; LET&apos;S SEE SO
IF YOUR
DECISION ONE OF MY STAFF
FINDINGS WAS THAT IF YOUR
DECISION HAD TO BE MADE BETWEEN
MOVING YOUR HOUSE OR LOSING THE
TREES, THAT WOULD BE TOUGH
BECAUSE IT&apos;S PRETTY CLEAR THAT
NEITHER MOVING THE HOUSE NOR
LOSING THE TREES IS RECOMMENDED
IN THE GUIDELINES THERE.
&gt;&gt; THE APPLICANTS DO SAY THAT
IT&apos;S POSSIBLE TO LEAVE A CRAWL
SPACE UNDER THAT PORTION OF THE
HOUSE WHERE THE TREE&apos;S ROOTS
HAVE ALREADY CREPT UNDERNEATH
THE REAR WING.
THIS ISN&apos;T IDEAL FOR THEM
BECAUSE THEY&apos;RE GOING TO LOSE
BASEMENT SPACE AND THE WHOLE
POINT OF THIS WAS TO GET A
LARGER FINISHED BASEMENT OUT
OF THE WORK THAT THEY WANT TO
DO BUT LEAVING A PARTIAL CROSS
CRAWL SPACE ALONG THAT SOUTH
WALL WOULD LEAVE THE TREE ROOTS
DISTURBED AND WOULD BE IN
KEEPING WITH BOTH THE STANDARDS
AND BOTH SETS OF GUIDELINES FOR
THE REVISION TO THE ADDITIONS I
I&apos;M A LITTLE BIT I&apos;M A LITTLE
BIT WISHY WASHY ABOUT THIS ONE
BECAUSE YOU CAN YOU CAN KIND
OF SEE IT A COUPLE OF DIFFERENT
WAYS.
SO THIS EDITION THAT YOU SEE IN
THE BACK HERE WAS FROM THE
PERIOD SIGNIFICANCE.
THE NEW EDITION THAT WAS INSIDE
A LITTLE BIT IS ROUGHLY THE
SAME FOOTPRINT AS THAT.
SO THAT IS SOMETHING I THINK
THAT SHOULD BE MAINTAINED.
IT&apos;S POSSIBLE, HOWEVER THAT
THAT IS DONE THROUGH THE THE
CHANGE IN THE ROOFLINE RATHER
THAN THE BACK CORNER AND WE
DON&apos;T KNOW IF THIS IS EXACTLY
WHERE THAT BACK CORNER SHOULD
GO OR NOT.
SO I THINK THAT THIS ONE IS A
LITTLE BIT OF A HARDER CALL
.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S IT WOULD FIT THE
GUIDELINES BETTER TO KEEP AN
INSET HERE AND TO KEEP THIS
CORNER SINCE THAT CORNER HAS
BEEN THERE FOR A LONG TIME.
BUT AGAIN, THIS WAS A REBUILT
CORNER AND WE&apos;RE NOT SURE THAT
IT&apos;S IN EXACTLY THE SAME PLACE
THUS THERE&apos;S A LITTLE BIT
OF AMBIGUITY HERE.
&gt;&gt; SO I DO THINK THAT THE
ALREADY APPROVED CORNER FITS
THE STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES
BETTER BUT I THINK THAT THERE&apos;S
ROOM TO THINK ABOUT IT THE
OTHER WAY AND USE THE ROOFLINE
AS A DIFFERENT WAY TO INTERPRET
THE BACK OF THAT BUILDING.
SO THAT DOES CONCLUDE MY REPORT
AND I&apos;M GOING TO JUST BACK DOWN
HERE TO THESE PHOTOS BECAUSE I
REALLY LIKE THEM.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
MISS THATCHER MYSELF AND
COMMISSIONER ROSS FROM THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE UM THIS ONE IS
I THINK IT&apos;S A LITTLE BIT
TRICKY.
I THINK IT IS HAS BEEN NOTED.
UM, I THINK THE MOST THE MAIN
THING THAT WE WERE LOOKING AT
ON THE SITE IS, YOU KNOW, THAT
RELATIONSHIP OF THE TREES TO
THE EXISTING HOUSE THE TREES
ARE ARE REALLY CLOSE BETTER IN
THE FRONT ON THE THE THAT THE
TRUE HEN PORTION OF THE UM THE
FOOTPRINT AND IT GETS NARROWER
IN THE BACK AS YOU GO FURTHER
BACK TO SOME OF THE LATER
ADDITIONS THOSE THOSE REALLY
PENSIONE I&apos;M A LITTLE BIT
CONCERNED EVEN HOW THE I THINK
THE WINDOW WOULD BE INSTALLED
IN GENERAL ON SITE WITH THIS
WITH THE SET BACKS TO BEGIN
WITH BECAUSE IT DOESN&apos;T SEEM
LIKE THERE MAYBE THERE&apos;S FIVE
FEET AND THE THE PORTION IS
REALLY CLOSE TO THE PROPERTY
LINE.
UM, THE FOUNDATION OF COURSE ON
THE HENDRIKS PORTION IS A STONE
STONE OR STONE FOUNDATION
EXCUSE ME AND IT DOES AT THE UM
THE LITTLE PORTION IN THE BACK
THAT WAS REBUILT THAT IS A
BLOCK FOUNDATION AND THEN THE
REST OF THE HOUSE IS ALSO A
BLOCK FOUNDATION SO THAT IT&apos;S
CLEAR THAT THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S A
LITTLE BIT MORE MODERN NEWER UM
IT&apos;S ALSO KIND OF LOOKING AT
THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN IF THE
HOUSE DOES MOVE OVER FOUR FEET
IF THAT WHAT KIND
OF RELATIONSHIP THAT MIGHT HAVE
OR CHANGE THAT THAT FEELING
FROM UM AS IT MOVES A LITTLE
BIT CLOSER TO THE GARAGE IS THE
DRIVEWAY A LITTLE BIT MORE?
&gt;&gt; I THINK IT&apos;S INTERESTING
BECAUSE THERE&apos;S A FENCE THAT
GOES BETWEEN HIS HOUSE AND THE
HOUSE TO THE TO THE SOUTH.
SO THE PHOTO THAT WE HAVE ON
THE SCREEN IS YOU KNOW, IT
LOOKS LIKE THERE&apos;S MUCH MORE
SPACE IN THE TREES SMALLER BUT
NOW WITH WITH THE WAY THAT
EVERYTHING IS GROWN, THE LIFE
OF THE TREES, EVERYTHING IT IS
IT IS REALLY TIGHT ON THAT SIDE
TOO.
IT&apos;S HARD TO GET A GOOD READING
I THINK OF THAT PORTION OF THE
HOUSE BEING THAT CLOSE TO SOME
SORT OF PROPERTY LINE WHERE
THERE IS MUCH MORE ROOM.
I GUESS IF YOU GO BACK TO MAYBE
THE DRIVEWAY SIDE I&apos;M SORRY.
YEAH, NO YOU&apos;RE GOOD.
YOU CAN YOU CAN KIND OF SCROLL
THROUGH HERE
UM WHERE THERE IS
YOU KNOW, QUITE A BIT MORE
SPACE.
SO THAT RELATIONSHIP FOUR FEET
I THINK THERE&apos;S PROBABLY ENOUGH
ROOM HERE TO SAY OK, IF WE DID
IF IT DID MOVE OVER FOUR FEET
HOW HOW MUCH OF THE SPECIAL
RELATIONSHIP WOULD BE CHANGED?
I&apos;M NOT REALLY QUITE SURE THAT
I THINK THAT&apos;S SOMETHING THAT&apos;S
THAT&apos;S GOOD FOR DISCUSSION IN
THIS PHOTO.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M STANDING ROUGHLY FOUR
FEET FROM THE HOUSE
APPROXIMATELY KIND OF TRYING TO
LOOK AT THAT AND KIND
OF EVALUATE THAT.
SO I DON&apos;T KNOW THAT I HAVE
MUCH MORE TO ADD TO THAT.
THERE ARE SOME QUESTIONS THAT I
THINK THAT I HAD AFTER WE LEFT
THAT WE&apos;LL BRING UP TO THE
APPLICANT ABOUT YOU KNOW, HOW
IS THE EXISTING FOUNDATION
GOING TO BE TREATED ONCE THE
HOUSE IS MOVED OVER?
WHAT THE PLAN FOR THAT IS
THAT&apos;S A DISCUSSION WE DIDN&apos;T
REALLY GET INTO BUT I&apos;LL PASS
IT ON THE COMMISSIONER ROSS, IF
YOU HAVE ANYTHING ELSE TO ADD.
&gt;&gt; UM, NO, I DON&apos;T REALLY I
THINK A VERY THOROUGH REPORTING
OF CAN YOU SPEAK INTO THE
MICROPHONE?
I&apos;M SORRY.
&gt;&gt; DON&apos;T NEED TO RIGHT IN MY
FACE.
UM NO, NOT REALLY.
I THINK THAT WAS A REALLY
THOROUGH REPORTING OUT OF JUST
THE GENERAL QUESTIONS THAT WE
HAD WHILE IN THE FIELD.
SO UH WITH THE APPLICANT PLEASE
GIVE ME YOUR MICROPHONE, TURN
ON YOUR VIDEO IF POSSIBLE AND
PROVIDE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS
FOR THE RECORD YOU&apos;LL HAVE UP
TO FIVE MINUTES TO SPEAK IF YOU
HAVE ANYTHING YOU&apos;D LIKE TO ADD
THE REPORT.
OH HI MR NEWMAN&apos;S AND MY
HUSBAND METZGER&apos;S AND I LIVE AT
TWELVE TWENTY THREE TRAILER
ROAD.
WE&apos;VE COME BEFORE THE
COMMISSION BEFORE TRYING TO
FIGURE OUT DIFFERENT WAYS
REMAIN IN OUR HOUSE AND ADD
SOME LIVING SPACE SINCE WE HAD
TWO LITTLE GIRLS THAT ARE
PRETTY ACTIVE AND GROWING AND
THE SORT OF SOLUTION WE CAME UP
WITH IN JANUARY WAS TO LIFT OUR
HOUSE AND DIG A BASEMENT EXTRA
OF THE MICHIGAN BASEMENT THAT
EXISTS UNDER OUR ORIGINAL
PORTION OF THE HOUSE AND THEN
EXCAVATE UNDER THE CRAWLSPACE
THAT IS EXISTING UNDER THE
ADDITIONS THAT WAS ADDED IN
NINETEEN NINETY TWO AFTER WE
RECEIVED APPROVAL FOR OUR
APPLICATION TO LIFT AN
EXCAVATOR OUT OF BASEMENT, THE
HOUSE LIFTER WAS ABLE TO COME
TO OUR HOUSE AND HE HAD
CONCERNS ABOUT HOW CLOSE THE
TREES
ARE THERE ABOUT FIVE FEET
AWAY SO THAT THAT FENCE IS THE
PROPERTY LINE AND IT&apos;S A FIVE
FOOT STEP BACK ON THE SIDE AND
SO MAYBE MORE LIKE FOUR OR FIVE
FEET AWAY FROM THE HOUSE AND HE
WASN&apos;T SO CONCERNED ABOUT THEM
DYING SO MUCH BUT THAT THEY
MIGHT FALL OVER AND SO
SUBSEQUENTLY TO THAT WE HAD
SOME ARBORIST COME OUT OVER AND
LINE UP.
WE SPOKE TO ALSO WASN&apos;T THAT
CONCERNED ABOUT THE TREES DYING
BUT AND AND THEN WE ALSO WERE
TRYING TO COME UP WITH A
SOLUTION SO THAT WE COULD STILL
PROCEED AND WE WERE THINKING
OF DOING A CRAWL SPACE ON THE
SIDE AND THE OR ANOTHER
ARBORIST THAT THAT THAT WOULD
BE SUFFICIENT TO HELP PROTECT
THE TREES AND NOT DIG SO CLOSE
TO THE TREE.
BUT THEN AS WE ARE TALKING, YOU
KNOW, THAT REMOVES A
SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF BASEMENT
SPACE AND LIVABLE SPACE FOR US.
AND SO THE HOUSE LEFT ARE ALSO
SUGGESTED AFTER WE&apos;VE LIFTED
THE HOUSE MOVING THE HOUSE FOUR
FEET AWAY FROM THE TREES WHICH
WOULD ALSO PRESERVE THE TREES
AND THEN ALLOW US TO PUT IT AND
A COMPLETE BASEMENT.
SO WE THOUGHT THAT WAS A MORE
ELEGANT SOLUTION TO OUR THREE
PROBLEM AND IT PRESERVED THE
UTILITY AND SPACE OF THE
BASEMENT AND IN SOME RESPECTS
IT PROBABLY PRESERVED THE LIFE
OF THE TREES A LITTLE BIT
BECAUSE THEY ARE SO CLOSE TO
THE HOUSE THAT THERE&apos;S A
CONCERN ABOUT BRANCHES AND
OTHER OTHER THINGS LIVING
REALLY UNDERNEATH A REALLY BIG
TREE.
SO MIGHT KEEP THEM ALIVE A
LITTLE LONGER AND I&apos;M HAVING TO
CUT THEM DOWN FOR OTHER REASONS
WITH RESPECT TO THE CORNER AND
I THINK JILL SHOWED PHOTOS THAT
WE OBTAINED FROM THE PREVIOUS
OWNER SHOWING THAT THE
CHATEAUNEUF EDITION WAS
COMPLETELY REMOVED IN THE EARLY
90S AND THE ADDITION WAS ADDED
WITH A CORNER IN FACT THAT IS A
PARENT.
AND SO WE WERE KIND OF HOPING
TO NOT HAVE TO DO IN ANOTHER
CORNER INSET IN THE FOUNDATION
IT&apos;S MORE COST COSTLY AND YOU
KNOW, WE DON&apos;T HAVE TO LOSE
THAT SPACE AND I GUESS OUR
THINKING ALONG THAT LINES AS
WELL IS THIS IS IF THE PREVIOUS
OWNER HAD EXTENDED EDITION THE
WAY WE WANT, THEY WOULDN&apos;T HAVE
BEEN TOLD TO ADD ANOTHER CORNER
.
IN FACT THEY WOULDN&apos;T HAVE HAD
TO DO TO CORNER INSTEAD TO
THEIR ADDITION JUST ONE WOULD
HAVE BEEN PROBABLY REQUIRED AT
THE TIME IN THE EARLY 90S.
&gt;&gt; SO I GUESS YEAH, WE&apos;RE JUST
ASKING TO CONTINUE THAT TO
CONTINUE THE ADDITIONS THAT WAS
ADDED IN THE EARLY 90S AND NOT
DO TO CORNER INSETS ESSENTIALLY
.
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
SO I GUESS THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S IT.
COMMISSIONER, DO YOU HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS FOR THE I DID TO I
GUESS ASK BECAUSE WE DID NOT
TALK ABOUT IT AT THE UM
WHENEVER WE MET YOU ON SITE
WHAT IS THE PLAN FOR THE
EXISTING FOUNDATION WALLS ONCE
THE HOUSE IS MOVED AND THE NEW
FOUNDATION WAS WHAT WHAT&apos;S
PROPOSED FOR TO MAKE UP THE
REST OF THAT FOUR FOOT CORNER
ESPECIALLY ON THE FRONT OF THE
HOUSE AND WHAT WOULD HAPPEN TO
THE EXISTING ONES?
ARE THEY AND I GUESS IF YOU CAN
JUST TO GIVE US A DESCRIPTION,
ARE YOU ARE YOU TALKING ABOUT
WHAT IT&apos;S GOING TO HAPPEN TO
THE STONES UNDERNEATH THE
STONES AND ALSO SO IF THEY&apos;RE
PICKING THE HOUSE UP AND THEN
SHIFTING IT OVER FOUR FEET,
THEN YOU HAVE OPEN BASEMENT.
SO IN THEORY I GUESS THEY&apos;LL BE
BUILDING NEW WALLS BUT THEN THE
EXISTING ONES WILL BE REMOVED.
BUT NOW WE HAVE A NEW
FOUNDATION TYPE UNDER THE
EXISTING UM CONTRIBUTING
RESOURCE THAT WAS STONE THAT IS
NOW A BLOCK WALL.
IS IT EXPOSED AS ARE THEY
SALVAGING SOME OF THE EXISTING
STONES THAT WERE USED FOR THAT
HOUSE?
&gt;&gt; I GUESS HOW IS THAT WORK
BEING TREATED AND HANDLED FOR
THE EXISTING STONES WHERE WE&apos;RE
GOING TO SAVE SAVE THAT I AND I
THINK WE WOULD LIKE TO PUT IN
LIKE A STONE WALL MAYBE ON THE
SIDE LIKE A RETAINING WALL.
I DON&apos;T KNOW IF THAT WOULD BE
ALLOWED BY THE COMMISSION BUT
THAT WAS ONE OF THE THOUGHTS
THAT MY HUSBAND AND I HAD TO
REPURPOSE THE STONES THAT WERE
IN THE BASEMENT.
I&apos;M NOT I&apos;M NOT EXACTLY SURE
WHAT YOU&apos;RE ASKING ABOUT THE
EXPOSED BASSMA AFTER THEY LEFT
THE HOUSE BUT UNDER THEIR
ORIGINAL PORTION OF THE HOUSE
THERE IS ACTUALLY IT&apos;S A
CIRCULAR FOUNDATION SO IT DOES
GO OUT ALL THE WAY TO THE
CORNERS.
IT&apos;S KIND OF LIKE A CRAWL SPACE
ON THE EDGES OF THE ORIGINAL
PORTION AND THEN A CIRCULAR
MICHIGAN BASEMENT THAT&apos;S ABOUT
FOUR FEET IN THE MIDDLE.
SO THERE&apos;S NOT GOING TO REALLY
BE LIKE AN EXPOSED DROP I GUESS
IF THAT&apos;S WHAT YOU&apos;RE IF THAT&apos;S
WHAT YOU&apos;RE ASKING ABOUT WITH
THE ORIGINAL QUESTION.
YEAH.
SO IF AFTER THEY MOVED THERE&apos;S
LIKE THERE&apos;S EARTH UNDERNEATH
AROUND THE IT&apos;S NOT A COMPLETE
HOLE UNDERNEATH THE ORIGINAL
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS
COMMISSIONERS&apos; I GUESS I HAVE A
QUESTION.
SURE.
I NEED TO ARTICULATE IT.
I GUESS I&apos;M JUST I&apos;M I JUST
WANTED TO HEAR SOME MORE ABOUT
WHY LIKE FOUR FEET WAS THE
RIGHT NUMBER AND AND WHAT THE
ARBORIST OR THE AH THE THE
HOUSE MOVER SAID OR I GUESS
MORE THE ARBORIST THEY WILL
OBVIOUSLY HAVE FOUR FEET WAS
THE NUMBER THROWN OUT THERE
MOVING IT FURTHER WOULD
PROBABLY BE BETTER BUT BUT WHY
WILL MOVING AT FOUR FEET MAKE A
DIFFERENCE FOR THE TREES I&apos;M
ASSUMING THIS IS BASED ON THE
EXPERIENCE OF THAT HOUSE LEFTER
AND I&apos;M SURE THEY HAD TO DIG
NEAR TREES BEFORE BUT THEY&apos;RE
ALREADY FOR THE AWAY FROM THE
HOUSE SO I GUESS LIKE MOVING
THEM EIGHT FEET IS GOOD THAT
THAT&apos;S WHAT HE RECOMMENDED.
ONE ARBORIST THAT CAME WASN&apos;T
EVEN CONCERNED ABOUT CUTTING
RIGHT OFF TO THE TREES.
SO I DON&apos;T THINK THAT THE TREES
ARE NECESSARILY GOING TO BE
LIKE DAMAGED BY THE CUTTING SO
MUCH.
&gt;&gt; THE HOUSE LIFTER WAS MAINLY
WORRIED ABOUT THEM FALLING OVER
.
SO I THINK IT&apos;S JUST MOVING SO
THAT OUR HOUSE IS NOW GOING TO
BE LIKE A NIGHT AWAY FROM THE
TREES THAT ARE SUFFICIENT
ENOUGH TO MAKE SURE IN THE
HOUSE LIFTERS POINT OF VIEW
THAT HE&apos;S NOT CONCERNED ABOUT
THE TREES FALLING OVER AND THEN
ALL RIGHT, I GOT SO WE&apos;RE WE&apos;RE
JUST BASING THAT ON LIKE ONE
ARBORISTS THE HOUSE MOVER
BASICALLY HAVE A CONSENSUS THAT
THAT FOUR FEET IS THE RIGHT WAY
TO GO.
CAN YOU EXPLAIN AGAIN THE THE
ORDER OF OPERATIONS IS IS THE
HOUSE MOVED BEFORE YOU&apos;RE
DIGGING?
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
SO HE SAID THAT THE LEFT MOW
AND THEN START DIGGING.
&gt;&gt; OK, THAT&apos;S ALL MY QUESTIONS
AND YEAH I I&apos;D LIKE THIS WOULD
NOT BE A SOLUTION IF WE
PROBABLY WEREN&apos;T ALREADY
LIFTING TO BEGIN WITH BUT SINCE
WE&apos;RE ALREADY LIFTING MOVING
THEM IT&apos;S NOT AS MUCH ABOUT
MOVING THE HOUSE IS NOT AS MUCH
OF A ORDEAL OK ANY OTHER
QUESTIONS FOR OVER QUESTION?
JUST UM JUST TO FOLLOW UP ON
COMMISSIONER EPPERSON&apos;S
QUESTION BECAUSE I WASN&apos;T
NECESSARILY 100 PERCENT CLEAR
SO THE FOUNDATION THE
FOUNDATION THAT&apos;S THERE
CURRENTLY THE ST. WILL NOT BE
REINCORPORATED INTO THE NEW
FOUNDATION.
IT&apos;S JUST GOING TO BE KIND
OF JUST USED SOMEWHERE ELSE ON
THE SITE IS THAT YEAH.
&gt;&gt; I THINK AT THIS WHEN I WAS
INITIALLY TALKING WITH JOE I
DON&apos;T EVEN KNOW A YEAR AGO
MAYBE THE IDEA IS TO YOU DON&apos;T
WANT YOUR FOUNDATION TO LOOK
LIKE ITS ORIGINAL.
YOU WANT IT TO SOMEBODY TO BE
ABLE TO TELL THAT IT&apos;S NANTEL
SO WE DO NOT PLAN TO
INCORPORATE THIS DOWN INTO THE
FOUNDATION.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S JUST YEAH THAT WAS A
THAT WAS A PRIOR APPROVAL OK
THAT WHEN THEY ASKED TO GET THE
HOUSE RAISED UP BUT THEY ALSO
GOT APPROVAL TO PUT IN THE NEW
FOUNDATION.
OH OK.
SO IT&apos;S POSSIBLE THAT NEITHER
OF YOU WERE THERE AT THE
MEETING SO THE WHOLE FOUNDATION
WAS IS IN THE PREVIOUS
APPLICATION IT&apos;S BEEN APPROVED
TO BE REPLACED IN ENTIRETY.
&gt;&gt; YES.
AS PART OF LIFTING IT YEAH.
GOT IT.
YEAH YEAH THAT HELPED CLARIFY
LOT.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S NOT JUST LIFTING
LIFTING IT AND THEN DIGGING
DOWN.
YEAH RIGHT AS WELL RIGHT SO
THAT&apos;S WHAT WAS APPROVED OK
RIGHT AND I GUESS JUST ANOTHER
I GUESS THE FOLLOW UP ON
ANOTHER ONE OF COMMISSIONER
EPPERSON&apos;S IT&apos;S MORE OF A
STATEMENT LESS OF A QUESTION
THAT THE SITE PLAN ISN&apos;T TO
SCALE.
SO YOU KNOW IT IS KIND OF IT IS
A LITTLE HARD TO GET A GOOD
IDEA OF LIKE MOVING IT FOUR
FEET LIKE HOW WILL REALLY
INTERACT WITH THE LIKE WHAT&apos;S
GOING TO HAPPEN THERE?
&gt;&gt; I MEAN I GUESS JUST
EYEBALLING IT AND LIKE OK
, UM
BUT YEAH SO I GUESS IT&apos;S MORE
OF A OBSERVATION THAN A
QUESTION KNOW I HAVE ANOTHER
QUESTION I&apos;D LIKE TO ASK.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M CURIOUS IF THERE WAS ANY
THOUGHT INTO JUST KEEPING THE
HISTORIC PORTION OF THE HOUSE
WHERE IT IS AND ONLY MOVING
FROM THE YOU KNOW THE NINETIES
BACK EDITION BECAUSE THAT IS
THE PART THAT&apos;S CLOSEST TO THE
TREES AND I WOULD HAVE LESS
CONCERN ABOUT MOVING THAT
PORTION FROM A HISTORIC
DISTRICT STANDPOINT I DON&apos;T
THINK IT&apos;S POSSIBLE TO JUST
MOVE WITHOUT TAKING APART THE
HOUSE.
&gt;&gt; I GUESS I&apos;M NOT
UNDERSTANDING WHAT YOU&apos;RE
ASKING.
I THINK YOU ARE BECAUSE I THINK
YOU&apos;RE EXACTLY RIGHT.
YOU WOULD HAVE TO DO SOME MAJOR
DEMOLITION TO SEPARATE THE TWO.
BUT I JUST WAS WONDERING IF IT
CAME UP AND DOESN&apos;T SOUND LIKE
IT DID.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU THE SAME QUESTION
ACTUALLY.
I MEAN I GUESS THE FIRST THING
THAT MIGHT BE MORE THAN I THINK
THAT BE TRICKY FOR A NUMBER
OF REASONS.
I DON&apos;T KNOW IF YOU CAN TELL
THAT WE HAVE SOME STAIRS
GRANDFATHER STAIRS THAT ARE
CONNECT THE BUILDING ORIGIN AND
THE NEW PORTION AND YEAH IT&apos;D
BE QUITE A THAT MIGHT BE MORE
THAN WE CAN AFFORD TO OK RIGHT
.
WELL NOW MOVE ON TO THE PUBLIC
HEARING PORTION FOR THIS ITEM.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THE
APPLICATION AT TWELVE TWENTY
THREE TRAVER UM AS A REMINDER
YOU CAN
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN.
THIS INFORMATION IS ALSO
DISPLAYED ON THE VIDEO FEED AND
MEETING AGENDA
DON&apos;T THINK THAT
WE HAVE ANY CALLERS.
&gt;&gt; UM SO I WILL CLOSE THE
PUBLIC HEARING PORTION.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE A COMMISSIONER THAT
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION ON
THE APPLICATION TAKER&apos;S
COMMISSIONER FORTNER?
ARE YOU VOLUNTEERING?
SURE.
OK, THANK YOU.
I KNOW THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT 12 23 TRAVERS
STREET A CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY
IN THE BROADWAY HISTORIC
DISTRICT TO ONE MOVES TO HOUSE
FOUR FEET TO THE NORTH IN ORDER
TO PROTECT TWO SILVER MAPLE
TREES AND A BLACK WALNUT TREE
AND TO REDESIGN A PREVIOUSLY
APPROVED EDITION TO REMOVE A
CORNER INSET AT THE REAR CORNER
OF THE HOUSE AS PROPOSED, THE
WORK IS COMPATIBLE AND EXTERIOR
DESIGN ARRANGEMENT TEXTURE
MATERIAL AND RELATIONSHIP TO
THE SURROUNDING RESOURCES AND
MEETS THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR
ALL EDITIONS AND RESIDENTIAL
LANDSCAPE FEATURES AND THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION
AND GUIDELINES FOR
REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS ONE TO NINE AND 10
AND THE GUIDELINES FOR DISTRICT
NEIGHBORHOOD SETTING BUILDING
SITE AND ADDITIONS SECOND BY
COMMISSIONER FORTNER SECONDED
BY COMMISSIONER FULLER
DISCUSSION ON THE MOTION
.
I HAD A QUESTION FOR STAFF IF
CAN YOU JUST EXPLAIN IF WE MOVE
THE BUILDING I MEAN WHAT WHAT
ARE WE WHAT TYPES OF CHARACTER
DEFINING FEATURES ARE BEING
CHANGED AND IS THERE A DANGER
THAT IT&apos;S NO LONGER A
CONTRIBUTING STRUCTURE?
I MEAN COULD IT COULD IT GO
THAT FAR IF WE MOVE THE
BUILDING FOUR FEET?
I&apos;M JUST CURIOUS LIKE WHAT ARE
WE AT RISK OF BEING UP AGAINST
HERE?
I DON&apos;T KNOW IF IT WOULD LOSE
ITS SIGNIFICANCE BY MOVING IT
FOUR FEET.
I DON&apos;T THINK IT WOULD.
THAT HADN&apos;T EVEN CROSSED MY
MIND.
I&apos;M JUST A LITTLE MORE
CONCERNED ABOUT THE VERY CLEAR
GUIDELINES ABOUT RETAINING
HISTORIC LANDSCAPE
RELATIONSHIPS, THE DISTANCE
BETWEEN THE HOUSE AND THE TREES
AND QUITE FRANKLY THE DISTANCE
BETWEEN THIS HOUSE AND THE
NEIGHBORING HOUSE WHICH I THINK
IS A SIGNIFICANT PART OF THE
VIEWSHED THE LANDSCAPE AND
THOSE TREES HAVE BEEN THERE.
YOU KNOW, YOU COULD SEE THEM IN
THOSE NINETEEN SEVENTY FOUR
SHOTS.
LET ME GET YOU BACK IN THERE A
SECOND.
IT&apos;S THESE ARE THE TWO MAPLES
AND BACK HERE I&apos;M NOT SURE IF
THAT&apos;S THE WALNUT OR IF THAT&apos;S
THE WAY BACK OR NOT.
THERE&apos;S A GINORMOUS ONE WAY IN
THE BACK CORNER OF THE LOT
THINK THAT&apos;S THOSE TWO THAT ARE
REALLY TOGETHER IT&apos;S OVER
MAITREYA&apos;S I THINK ONE OF THOSE
MUST BE THE WALNUT.
OH, I THINK THE ONE ANYWAY THE
WAY THAT THE PICTURE IS VIEWED
,THE ONE RIGHT AT THE FRONT
EDGE OF THE HOUSE, THE TIP
OF THE ROOF IS THE MIDDLE
OF THIS ONE TREE.
YEAH MY SCREEN TURNED OK AND
THEN THE ONE RIGHT NEXT TO IT
IN BACK IS THE MOMENT OK OK
THAT WOULD MAKE SENSE BECAUSE
ALL THREE OF THESE TREES ARE
ROUGHLY THE SAME SIZE ANYWAY SO
UH I DON&apos;T THINK THAT THE SITE
WOULD THE HOUSE WOULD LOSE ITS
SIGNIFICANCE IF YOU MOVED IT
FOUR FEET BUT I DO THINK THAT
THOSE RELATIONSHIPS WOULD BE
CHANGED AND YOU HAVE TO DECIDE
WHETHER THAT&apos;S TOO MUCH OF A
CHANGE OR WHETHER IT&apos;S
ACCEPTABLE IN ORDER TO ALLOW
MORE LIVING SPACE BELOW GRADE
IN THE HOUSE.
AND IF YOU BELIEVE YOU HAVE
ENOUGH INFORMATION ABOUT THE
TREES AND HOW THIS WOULD
ACTUALLY BENEFIT THEM
, I MEAN
CERTAINLY IT WOULD BENEFIT THEM
RIGHT?
IT&apos;S A LITTLE BIT I WISH THAT I
HAD ASKED TAMMY AND MITCH FOR
SOMETHING IN WRITING ABOUT
YEAH.
FROM ARBORIST ALTHOUGH THEY GOT
DIFFERENT REPORTS FROM
DIFFERENT PEOPLE BUT I MEAN
CERTAINLY IT WOULD HELP THE
HEALTH OF THOSE TREES.
SO I GUESS I WOULD EVEN ASK THE
QUESTION SO THERE&apos;S A
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN DESTROYING
THE RELATIONSHIP AND
DIMINISHING IT.
&gt;&gt; UM, JAN, CAN YOU TALK TO
YOUR MOTHER SORRY.
SORRY.
SO I SAID TO ME THERE&apos;S A
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN DESTROYING
THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE
LANDSCAPING, THE HOUSE AND THEN
THE HOUSE NEXT DOOR AND JUST
LIKE A LIKE KIND OF DIMINISHING
THE RELATIONSHIP I WOULDN&apos;T SAY
I MEAN IT&apos;S JUST SO HARD TO
EYEBALL AND TRY AND LIKE
WITHOUT LIKE A SIGHT LINE I
DON&apos;T KNOW TO FIGURE OUT LIKE
IN REAL TIME, YOU KNOW WHAT
THIS IS GOING LIKE IN REALITY
JUST FOR A LITTLE MEASLY FEET.
YEAH.
UM, YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S NOT CHANGING
THE ORIENTATION OF THE HOUSE.
IT&apos;S NOT MOVING IT FROM THE
ACTUAL PARCEL TO ANOTHER
PERSON.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S NOT PUSHING IT
BACKWARDS.
IT&apos;S IT&apos;S LITERALLY JUST
SCOOTING IT OVER A LITTLE BIT.
SO I WOULD SAY, YOU KNOW,
PROBABLY WILL DIMINISH IT
SOMEWHAT BUT I WOULDN&apos;T THINK
IT WOULD DESTROY IT.
&gt;&gt; SO I&apos;M I&apos;M COMFORTABLE WITH
THAT ASPECT OF IT.
UM, DENHA SO IT WILL ACTUALLY
PRESERVE THE TREES.
YEAH.
SO I&apos;M COMFORTABLE WITH
HAMPERED BECAUSE I HOPE THE
TREES THE TREES WILL BE BETTER
OFF HAVING MORE ROOM AND QUIET
WILL BE BETTER OFF WITH THE
APPROVAL.
I&apos;M READING FROM THIS THAT IT&apos;S
THAT A LOT OF SIXTY SIX FEET
WIDE A TOTAL GET DOWN TO THAT
SO THAT WOULD MAKE THIS A SIX
PERCENT DIFFERENCE IF THAT
MAKES ANYBODY FEEL ANY BETTER.
OH YEAH THERE&apos;S A THERE&apos;S A
SITE PLAN IN YOUR PACKET I&apos;M
SURE IT&apos;S NOT IN THE SLIDESHOW.
OH YEAH YEAH I&apos;M LOOKING AT UH
GUIDELINES BUILDING SITE
IDENTIFY RETAIN PRESERVE
RECOMMENDED RETAINING HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN BUILDINGS
LANDSCAPE FEATURES AND OPEN
SPACE I THINK AND PRESERVING AN
IMPORTANT LANDSCAPE FEATURES
INCLUDING ONGOING MAINTENANCE
OF HISTORIC PLANT MATERIAL.
&gt;&gt; UM NOT RECOMMENDED LOCATING
ANY NEW CONSTRUCTION ON THE
BUILDING SITE WHERE IMPORTANT
LANDSCAPE FEATURES WILL BE
DAMAGED OR DESTROYED.
UM I DO THINK THERE IS RISK
WITH THOSE WINDOW WELLS IN
GENERAL OF DESTROYING THE TREES
FOR SURE.
OBVIOUSLY ANY I THINK NEW WORK
WOULD DO THAT WHICH IS WHY
WE&apos;RE DISCUSSING THIS.
BUT I THINK COMMISSIONER
SOROSES COMMISSIONER ROSS&apos;S
POINT ABOUT DIMINISHING VERSUS
DESTROYING I THINK IS A REALLY
GOOD ONE FOR FEET AND I THINK
THE QUESTION ABOUT WHY FOUR
FEET IS ALSO WAS REALLY
IMPORTANT BECAUSE IT DOES SEEM
ON THIS LOT LIKE FOUR FEET
REALLY DOESN&apos;T SEEM LIKE A LOT
ESPECIALLY FOR THE EFFORT TO
LIFT THE HOUSE BUT THEN MOVE IT
THEY SAYING THAT IT&apos;S NOT MUCH
EFFORT.
I THINK I WAS A LITTLE BIT
CONCERNED ABOUT WHAT HAPPENS AT
THE FOUNDATION BUT BECAUSE I
MISSED THE PREVIOUS APPLICATION
I THINK THAT TAKES AWAY A LOT
OF MY CONCERNS IF THAT WAS OUR
HAS ALREADY BEEN APPROVED
BY
THE COMMISSION, UM, I THINK THE
LOCATION THAT IT&apos;S BEING, YOU
KNOW, JUST SHIFTED FOUR FEET IN
ONE DIRECTION ON THE MUCH
LARGER OPEN SIDE OF THE LOT.
I DON&apos;T KNOW THAT THAT IS
REALLY GOING TO HAVE MUCH OF A
CHANGE IN THE FEATURES
ESPECIALLY NOW THAT THE TREES
ARE OLDER AND GROWN.
&gt;&gt; THINGS SEEM REALLY
COMPRESSED SO SOME OF THAT YOU
SAID MIGHT BE I THINK BALANCED
OUT AGAIN A LITTLE BIT.
&gt;&gt; UH, SO I&apos;M MOVING MORE IN
SUPPORT OF THE APPLICATION.
I WOULD MORE QUESTIONS.
YEAH, GO THROUGH DOES ANYONE
HAVE ANY OTHER COMMENTS,
QUESTIONS, DISCUSSION MR. I&apos;M
SURE I MEAN THERE&apos;S THE
QUESTION OF THE NOTCH IN AS
WELL AND I THINK THAT
ESPECIALLY WITH THOSE PHOTOS
WHERE YOU CAN SEE THAT THAT
VERY CLEARLY THAT THAT THAT
SHED FROM THE PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE WAS REMOVED
COMPLETELY AND AND LIKEWISE
POINTED OUT WE DON&apos;T REALLY
KNOW EXACTLY WHERE THE CORNER
IS AND SO IT WOULD BE HARD TO
SAY WE DIDN&apos;T KNOW THAT BEFORE
.
BUT NOW WE HAVE NEW INFORMATION
AND AND LIKE WAS ALSO POINTED
OUT, THE ROOFLINES WILL BE
DIFFERENT WHICH WILL AT LEAST
BE SOME ACKNOWLEDGMENT BUT I
DON&apos;T EVEN KNOW IF ANY WITHOUT
KNOWING EXACTLY WHERE THAT
CORNER WOULD.
I THINK IT&apos;S IT&apos;S HARD TO SAY
THAT YOU NEED A NOTCH THERE AND
INDENT.
SO I THINK THAT IT MAKES SENSE
WHAT THE OWNERS ARE ASKING FOR
TO ME TO TO JUST NOT HAVE A
CORNER IN YOUR FOUNDATION THAT
YOU DON&apos;T NEED AND SO THAT THAT
THAT PART OF THE APPLICATION
MAKES SENSE TO ME.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
GOOD.
WELL WE ALREADY PROVOKED YES.
&gt;&gt; ALL OF THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY YES.
YES.
ALL OF THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY
NO YOU&apos;RE THE MOTION CARRIES
YOUR APPLICATION HAS BEEN
APPROVED.
PLEASE NOTE THAT YOU MUST APPLY
FOR ANY REQUIRED PERMITS FROM
THE CITY BEFORE BEGINNING ON
YOUR PROJECT.
THANK YOU JAMIE.
THANK YOU.
THANK RIGHT NOW ON TO ITEM FOUR
TO TWENTY FOUR S MAIN STREET
STATUTE.
WOULD YOU PLEASE GIVE THIS
JEFFREY?
YES
.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT 224 S MADE IS IN
THE MAIN STREET HISTORIC
DISTRICT.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS A ONE STORY
COMMERCIAL BUILDING THAT
FEATURES ENAMELED STEEL PANELS
OVER BRICK OVER PART OF IT AND
A DEEPLY RECESSED ENTRY DOOR
WITH TALL GLASS DISPLAY WINDOWS
WAS ORIGINALLY A THREE STOREY
ITALIANATE STRUCTURE WHICH
DATED TO EIGHTEEN SIXTY THE DRY
GOODS ARM OF THE MAC AND
COMPANY DEPARTMENT STORE THAT
MOVED HERE IN 1898.
THE BUILDING IS LISTED AS
VACANT IN NINETEEN FORTY TWO
EXCEPT FOR CHRISTIAN MAX
INSURANCE COMPANY ON THE SECOND
FLOOR AND BY NINETEEN FORTY TWO
THE UPPER TWO STORIES HAVE BEEN
REMOVED AND THE ENAMELED STEEL
PANELS AND RECESSED ENTRY
INSTALLED ON TWO TWENTY FOUR.
THIS WAS FIRST OCCUPIED BY THE
DIXIE STORE IN NINETEEN FORTY
THREE AND THEY AREN&apos;T MODERN
FACADE INSTALLED ON TWO TWENTY
SIX FOR CUNNINGHAMS DRUGS
CUNNINGHAMS MOVED TO THIS
ADDRESS BY JULY OF NINETEEN
FORTY TWO AND THE PREVIOUS
STAFF FROM THE PREVIOUS STAFF
TO SIXTEEN S MADE IN 2013 THE
DC ALLOWED AN AWNING AND
ENABLED THE STEEL PANELS IN
POOR CONDITION TO BE REMOVED
FROM ABOVE THE STORE FRONT AT
TWO TWENTY FOUR SO TO TWENTY
FOUR WHAT I&apos;M TALKING ABOUT
THAT IS A SEPARATE STORE FRONT
HERE AND TWO TWENTY SIX IS THE
CUNNINGHAMS BUILDING THE IT&apos;S
ALL CURRENTLY USED BY THE
PRETZEL BELL RESTAURANT
.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT, HERE&apos;S ANOTHER
PHOTO.
THIS IS WHERE THIS STEEL PANELS
WERE ALLOWED TO BE REMOVED IN
2013.
THEY WERE IN VERY POOR SHAPE
AND A LOT OF WATER WAS GETTING
IN THERE BEHIND THEM YOU CAN
SEE THAT THERE&apos;S BEEN SOME
BRICK PATCHING IN THE PAST.
THIS IS A STOREFRONT THAT IS
BELIEVED TO DATE TO THE PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S VERY FORTY&apos;S IN STYLE
AND IT WOULD MAKE SENSE THAT
THAT WAS THEIR AS PART OF THE
NINETEEN FORTY TWO REMODEL THE
ART RETURN ON THE CORNER THE
THE THE THE ALUMINUM STEEL
BANDS HERE ARE OUR OBVIOUSLY
PART OF THAT STOREFRONT THE
WINDOWS HERE HAVE BEEN
SHORTENED.
THEY USED TO GO A LITTLE BIT
CLOSER TO THE GROUND WHEN IT
WAS A DRUG STORE BUT OTHERWISE
MOST OF THIS FIRST FLOOR IS
ORIGINAL ON HERE ON THE BACK
OF THE BUILDING AND THE WEST
LIBERTY SIDE IS THIS LAST BAY
NEXT TO THE ALLEY AND PROPOSED
BACK HERE IS TO REPLACE THIS
DOOR AND INFILL BRICK WITH A
NEW STOREFRONT THAT WOULD SERVE
THE END OF THE BUILDING BACK
HERE.
THIS HAS OBVIOUSLY BEEN ALTERED
A COUPLE OF TIMES.
THESE ARE DIFFERENT BRICKS THAN
THESE RIGHT HERE.
THESE HAVE ALSO BEEN ENFOLD BUT
AT A DIFFERENT ERA AND THEN THE
BRICKS ON THE TOP THIRD OF THIS
BAY MATCH THE REST OF THE
COMMON RED BRICK ON THE
BUILDING.
THE WINDOW OPENINGS ARE
CONSISTENT WITH WHAT THEY
LOOKED LIKE IN NINETEEN FORTY
TWO WITH CUNNINGHAM DRUGS.
I HAVE A COUPLE MORE SHOTS FROM
AFAR TO GIVE YOU A SENSE
OF WHAT&apos;S GOING ON AROUND IT.
THIS IS THE ONLY REMAINING BAY
OF OF A BUILDING THAT USED TO
STRETCH ALL THE WAY ACROSS THIS
ONE HERE THAT BECAME A
WOOLWORTH&apos;S LATER AND ALL THE
WAY TO THE CORNER IT WAS JUST A
MAMMOTH THREE STOREY BUILDING
AND ON THIS SIDE WE HAVE THE
ALLEY AND THEN SHORTER THREE
STOREY BUILDINGS BUT ALSO ALSO
THREE ACTUALLY THERE&apos;S THREE OR
TWO I THINK THERE ARE THREE
THOSE ARE THREE AND THEN ACROSS
THE STREET IS ANOTHER A
FORMERLY ITALIANATE BUILDING
THAT WAS ABOUT THE SAME MASS.
THIS ONE HAS HAD ITS WINDOWS
SQUARED OFF SIMILAR TO THE THE
TALL BIT OF THE ORIGINAL
BUILDING OVER HERE THAT&apos;S LEFT
AND THESE LIKE ALL FOUR
BUILDINGS AT THE CORNER OF MAIN
AND LIBERTY AT SOME POINT GOT
THEIR WINDOWS SQUARED OFF.
THEY USED TO ALL BE ARCH
ITALIANATE WINDOWS WHICH I
THINK IS VERY INTERESTING BUT
THAT WAS THE FASHION IN THE
TEENS OR 20S.
AND HERE&apos;S A VIEW LOOKING DOWN
MAIN STREET PAST THE THE
NEIGHBORING BUILDING THAT IS
STILL THREE STORIES TO THE ONE
IN QUESTION.
SO THE PROPOSAL HERE IS TO ADD
THREE FLOORS, TWO OF WHICH
WOULD BE FULL FLOORS ABOVE THE
FOOTPRINT OF THE BUILDING AND
THE FOURTH WOULD BE THE FOUR
FOUR WOULD BE A PARTIAL SET
BACK STORY BACK HERE BURIED IN
THE CORNER OF THE BUILDING
WE&apos;VE BEEN THROUGH THE HISTORY
OF THE SITE A COUPLE OF TIMES
AT WORKING SESSIONS BUT JUST
VERY QUICKLY YOU CAN SEE THAT
THIS IS THE ORIGINAL ITALIANATE
BUILDING.
THIS IS A NINETEEN 06 PHOTO AND
BY THE 1920S LOOK, THERE&apos;S THE
SQUARED OFF WINDOWS THAT I WAS
TALKING ABOUT THAT MORE LIGHT
IN AND BE MORE FASHIONABLE.
IT HAD A HAD A STUNNING ROW
OF STOREFRONTS AT ONE POINT.
THESE ARE THESE ARE VERY
ELABORATE AND INTERESTING.
NINETEEN THIRTIES HERE ON THE
TOP THIS IS NINETEEN THIRTY
NINE I&apos;M PRETTY SURE
CUNNINGHAMS DIDN&apos;T OPEN UNTIL
NINETEEN FORTY TWO BUT THAT&apos;S
OK.
THEY&apos;RE BOTH DURING THE PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE AND YOU CAN SEE
THE ART MODERN STYLE WITH THESE
ENAMELED STEEL PANELS RUNNING
ALL THE WAY AROUND THE SIDE
OF THE BUILDING ALL THE WAY TO
THE BACK AND THERE WAS SOME
SORT OF A STOREFRONT BACK HERE
ON THE LAST BAY KIND OF HARD TO
SEE WHAT IT WAS BUT IT&apos;S
DEFINITELY GOT AT LEAST A
WINDOW AND A PERSON OR THERE
HERE&apos;S AN EARLY 70S PHOTO ON
THE TOP AND THE PARTHENON
RESTAURANT BY NINETEEN NINETY
THEY HAD SHORTENED THESE
WINDOWS IN THE FRONT THAT I
MENTIONED ALREADY BUT YOU SEE
THAT THIS SORT OF MARQUEE IS
STILL INTACT
.
SOME MORE PHOTOS.
THIS IS A GOOD ONE SHOWING THE
DOUBLE OR ENTRY&apos;S ON THE FRONT
CORNER OF THE BUILDING BACK
ALLEY IS BACK ALLEY YOU CAN SEE
SOME OPENINGS HAVE BEEN BRICKED
IN BUT THERE&apos;S NOT MUCH
SIGNIFICANT GOING ON BACK THERE
AND MOVING ON TO RENDERINGS
THESE ARE FROM WORKING
SESSIONS.
HERE WE GO THIS THESE NOW ARE
GETTING INTO SOME RENDERINGS
OF THE ADDITIONS ON TOP OF THE
CUNNINGHAM DRUGS BUILDING.
HERE&apos;S THE VIEW FROM THE
STREET.
IT HAS A CLEAR GLAZING ELEMENT
HERE AT THE CORNER AND THERE&apos;S
A LOT OF INFORMATION ON THE
MATERIALS IN THE PACKET.
I&apos;M NOT GOING TO DELVE INTO
THAT.
IF YOU HAVE QUESTIONS YOU CAN
ASK THE ARCHITECT ABOUT THOSE A
LOT OF GLAZING LETTING A LOT
OF LIGHT IN THERE ON THE SECOND
AND THIRD FLOORS.
THIS IS A CLEAR RAILING UP ON A
ROOF DECK I THINK I SAW SOME
SOME GREENERY UP HERE AND HERE
YOU CAN SEE THE PARTIAL FOURTH
FLOOR.
YOU CAN SEE THAT ENAMELED STEEL
PANELS NOT ENAMELED STEEL STEEL
PANELS THAT ARE MODERN
MATERIALS RESEMBLE ENAMELED
STEEL PANELS WOULD BE RESTORED
TO THE FIRST FLOOR AND WE HAVE
A NEW STOREFRONT HERE ON THE
LIBERTY ELEVATION.
THESE OPENINGS ARE MAINTAINED
AS ARE THE OPENINGS IN THE
FRONT AND THE FRONT DOORS AND
THE TRIM THEIR SITE PLAN IS A
RECTANGLE THAT&apos;S PRETTY
STRAIGHT FORWARD EXISTING FIRST
FLOOR PLANS.
I&apos;M NOT GOING TO DWELL ON THE
FLOOR PLANS BUT THEY&apos;RE HERE IF
WE NEED TO TALK TO THEM.
THERE&apos;S A STAIRWELL IN AN
ELEVATOR PROPOSED TO BE PLACED
INSIDE OF THE MAIN STREET
STOREFRONT WHICH HAS BEEN
REVISED.
I&apos;LL IN A SECOND AND THEN WE
HAVE OUR SECOND AND THIRD
FLOORS AND THE FOURTH FLOOR
HERE WHICH IS THE PARTIAL FLOOR
AND THEN IT LOOKS LIKE THERE&apos;S
A MECHANICAL SCREEN ON TOP
OF THAT WITH SOME MECHANICAL
UNITS.
WE HAVE ELEVATION DRAWINGS YEAR
TO TWENTY FOUR SOUTH MAIN
STREET WHICH HAS A NEW
STOREFRONT IN IT.
ALL OF THIS REMAINS AND PANELS
WOULD BE REPLACED HERE AND THEN
OVERHEAD WE HAVE THE NEW
BUILDING AND GLAZING AND HERE
YOU CAN SEE FOURTH FLOOR THAT&apos;S
SET BACK S ELEVATION AND THE
VIEW FROM THE BACK FROM THE
ALLEY WHICH YOU ACTUALLY
WOULDN&apos;T SEE BECAUSE THERE ARE
BUILDINGS IN THE WAY BUT YOU
MIGHT GET A LITTLE BIT OF THIS
ON AN ANGLE.
EXISTING MATERIALS HAVE BEEN
LAID OUT VERY NICELY IN THE
APPLICATION AND PROPOSED
MATERIALS INCLUDE THE STEEL
PANELS.
THIS IS THE NEW STORE FRONT ON
LIBERTY AND WE HAVE A NEW
STOREFRONT ON MAIN TWO.
&gt;&gt; TWENTY FOUR THERE&apos;S
INFORMATION ON THE METAL PANELS
AND WINDOW FRAMES.
HERE&apos;S THE METAL CLADDING PLAN
FOR THE FIRST FLOOR FOR THE THE
CUNNINGHAMS SECTIONS.
THEY IN SOME DETAIL DREW OVER
THE THE HISTORIC PHOTOGRAPHS TO
FIGURE OUT WHAT THE PANEL
PATTERN WOULD BE AND THEN TO
REPLICATE WITH MODERN PANELS.
OBVIOUSLY IT WOULD IT&apos;S GOING
TO BE A LITTLE BIT DIFFERENT
AROUND THESE WINDOWS BUT BUT
REALLY THAT ALONE WOULD WOULD
JUST DO WONDERS TO RESTORE THE
HISTORIC APPEARANCE OF THIS
BUILDING.
THERE&apos;S A LOT OF INFORMATION ON
ATTACHMENTS OF PANELS.
THE WE&apos;RE NOT GOING TO GO
THROUGH IN DETAIL BUT I CAN
FLIP BACK TO THEM IF YOU WANT
TO SEE THEM HERE WE HAVE THE
NEW STOREFRONT AND LIBERTY THAT
IS PROPOSED AND THE NEW
STOREFRONT ON MAIN STREET THAT
IS PROPOSED.
I TOUCHED ON THIS EARLIER BUT
SINCE THIS IS A CONTRIBUTING
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE FROM THE
PERIOD OF SIGNIFICANCE, I DON&apos;T
THINK THAT IT IS APPROPRIATE TO
REPLACE THIS STOREFRONT WITH A
SHALLOWER ONE.
I REALIZE THAT THIS VERY DEEP
AND TAKES UP A LOT OF FLOOR
AREA ON THE INSIDE BUT THAT IS
THE HISTORIC CHARACTER TO HAVE
THESE VERY LARGE 4D DISPLAY
WINDOWS AREN&apos;T A WHOLE LOT
OF THESE LEFT ON MAIN STREET.
I CAN I CAN ONLY THINK OF TWO
WINDOW CUT SHEETS WERE
INCLUDED.
ALL RIGHT.
LET ME RUN THROUGH THE
STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES I READ
TO YOU ONE TO I DIDN&apos;T READ
THREE EACH PROPERTY WILL BE
RECOGNIZED AS A PHYSICAL RECORD
OF ITS TIME, PLACE AND USE
CHANGES THAT CREATE A FALSE
SENSE OF HISTORICAL DEVELOPMENT
SUCH AS ADDING CONJECTURAL
FEATURES OR ELEMENTS FROM OTHER
HISTORIC PROPERTIES.
WILL THAT BE UNDERTAKEN FOR
SAYS THAT CHANGES TO A PROPERTY
THAT HAVE ACQUIRED HISTORIC
SIGNIFICANCE IN THEIR OWN RIGHT
WILL BE RETAINED AND PRESERVED
?
I HAVE READ TO YOU FIVE SIX HAS
DETERIORATED START FEATURES
WILL BE REPAIRED RATHER THAN
REPLACED WHERE THE SEVERITY
OF DETERIORATION REQUIRES
REPLACEMENT OF A DISTINCTIVE
FEATURE.
THE NEW FEATURE WILL MATCH THE
OLD AND DESIGN COLOR TEXTURE
AND WHERE POSSIBLE MATERIALS
REPLACEMENT OF MISSING FEATURES
WILL BE SUBSTANTIATED BY
DOCUMENTARY AND PHYSICAL
EVIDENCE.
&gt;&gt; AND I HAVE READ NINE AND TEN
TO YOU FROM THE SECRETARY THE
INTERIORS GUIDELINES FOR
ALTERATIONS OR EDITIONS FOR THE
NEW USE IT&apos;S RECOMMENDED TO
DESIGN ADDITIONS TO ROOFS SUCH
AS RESIDENTIAL OFFICE OR
STORAGE SPACES, ELEVATOR
HOUSING DECKS AND TERRACES OR
DORMERS OR SKYLIGHTS WHEN
REQUIRED BY THE NEW USE
OF THEIR INCONSPICUOUS FROM THE
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY DO NOT
DAMAGE OR OBSCURE CHARACTER
DEFINING STRUCTURES.
IT&apos;S RECOMMENDED DESIGN NEW
ADDITIONS IN A MANNER THAT
MAKES CLEAR WHAT IS HISTORIC
AND WHAT IS NEW ALSO
RECOMMENDED AS CONSIDERING THE
ATTACHED EXTERIOR ADDITIONS IN
TERMS OF THE NEW USE AND THE
APPEARANCE OF OTHER BUILDINGS
IN THE DISTRICT.
DESIGN FOR THE NEWARK MAY BE
CONTEMPORARY OR MAY REFERENCE
DESIGN MOTIFS FROM THE HISTORIC
BUILDING.
IN EITHER CASE IT SHOULD ALWAYS
BE CLEARLY DIFFERENTIATED FROM
THE HISTORIC BUILDING TO BE
COMPATIBLE IN TERMS OF MASS
MATERIALS RELATIONSHIP OF SOLID
TO VOIDS AND COLOR ALSO
RECOMMENDED AS DESIGNING
ADDITIONAL STORIES WHEN
REQUIRED FOR THE NEW YEAR USE
THAT ARE SET BACK FROM THE WALL
PLAIN AND AS INCONSPICUOUS AS
POSSIBLE WHEN VIEWED FROM THE
STREET NOT RECOMMENDED
DESIGNING A NEW ADDITIONS THAT
ITS SIZE AND SCALE IN RELATION
TO THE HISTORIC BUILDING ARE
OUT OF PROPORTION, THUS
DIMINISHING THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER ALSO NOT RECOMMENDED
AS CONSTRUCTING ADDITIONAL
STORIES OF THE HISTORIC
APPEARANCE OF THE BUILDING IS
RADICALLY CHANGED FROM THE
GUIDELINES FOR DISTRICT OR
NEIGHBORHOOD SETTING
RECOMMENDED TO DESIGN AND
CONSTRUCT NEW ADDITIONS TO
HISTORIC BUILDINGS AS REQUIRED
BY THE NEW USE THAT SHALL BE
COMPATIBLE WITH THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE SETTING IN
TERMS OF SIZE, SCALE DESIGN,
MATERIAL COLOR AND TEXTURE FROM
THE INTERIOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR ALL
EDITIONS IT&apos;S APPROPRIATE TO
PLACE A NEW ADDITION ON A NON
CHARACTER DEFINING OR
INCONSPICUOUS ELEVATION AND
LIMITING THE SIZE AND SCALE IN
RELATION TO THE HISTORIC
PROPERTY.
ALSO DESIGNING NEW ADDITIONS IN
A MANNER THAT MAKES CLEAR WHAT
IS HISTORIC AND WHAT IS NEW.
IT&apos;S NOT APPROPRIATE DESIGN IN
ADDITION THAT OVERPOWERS OR
DRAMATICALLY ALTERS THE
ORIGINAL BUILDING THROUGH SIZE
OR HEIGHT FOR ADDITIONS TO
HISTORIC COMMERCIAL STRUCTURES.
IT&apos;S APPROPRIATE WHEN REQUIRED
TO DESIGN ADDITIONAL STORIES
THAT ARE SET BACK FROM THE
FRONT AND SIDE WARPLANES AND
ARE AS INCONSPICUOUS AS
POSSIBLE WHEN VIEWED FROM THE
STREET WELL TO LOCATING A
ROOFTOP ADDITION TO BE
INCONSPICUOUS WHEN VIEWED FROM
THE STREET.
IT&apos;S NOT APPROPRIATE.
SOME OF THESE ARE KIND
OF REDUNDANT.
I&apos;M NOT GOING TO READ THAT ONE
NOT APPROPRIATE TO DESIGNING AN
ADDITION THAT ADDS A FULL FLOOR
AT THE STREET WALL OF A
HISTORIC COMMERCIAL BUILDING
WITHOUT STEPPING BACK.
AND FINALLY FROM NATIONAL PARK
SERVICE PRESERVATION 314 THEY
HAD A LOT OF ADDITIONAL
GUIDANCE ON DESIGNING A NEW
EXTERIOR ADDITION TO HISTORIC
BUILDING.
THE NEW EDITION SHOULD BE
SIMPLE AND UNOBTRUSIVE AND
DESIGN AND DISTINGUISHED
DIFFERENTIATE NEW FROM OLD
SHOULD NOT BE HIGHLY VISIBLE
FROM THE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY.
A REAR OR OTHER SECONDARY
ELEVATION IS USUALLY THE BEST
LOCATION FOR NEW ADDITION
CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS AND THE
COLOR OF THE NEW ADDITIONS
SHOULD BE HARMONIOUS WITH THE
HISTORIC BUILDING MATERIALS.
THE NEW EDITION SHOULD BE
SMALLER THAN THE HISTORIC
BUILDING SUBORDINATE IN BOTH
SIZE AND DESIGN TO THE HISTORIC
BUILDING AND THE SAME GUIDANCE
SHOULD BE APPLIED WHEN
DESIGNING A COMPATIBLE ROOFTOP
EDITION.
PLUS THE FOLLOWING ROOFTOP
EDITION IS GENERALLY NOT
APPROPRIATE FOR A ONE, TWO OR
THREE STOREY BUILDING AND OFTEN
IS NOT APPROPRIATE FOR TALLER
BUILDINGS.
A ROOFTOP EDITION SHOULD BE
MINIMALLY VISIBLE GENERALLY A
ROOFTOP EDITION MUST BE SET
BACK AT LEAST ONE FULL DAY FROM
THE PRIMARY ELEVATION OF THE
BUILDING AS WELL AS FROM OTHER
ELEVATIONS.
IF THE BUILDING IS FREESTANDING
OR HIGHLY VISIBLE GENERALLY A
ROOFTOP EDITION SHOULD NOT MORE
THAN ONE STORY IN HEIGHT AND
GENERALLY A ROOFTOP EDITION IS
MORE LIKELY TO BE COMPATIBLE OR
ONLY IF IT IS ADJACENT TO
SIMILARLY SIZED OR TALLER
BUILDINGS.
OK, THAT CONCLUDES THE DESIGN
GUIDELINE AND THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR GUIDELINES AND
STANDARDS.
&gt;&gt; LET ME CRUISE ALL THE WAY
BACK UP HERE AGAIN.
&gt;&gt; OK, KNOW THESE ARE
SO JUST
TO BE CLEAR THE ONE STOREY
BUILDING THAT&apos;S ON THE SITE NOW
IS FROM THE PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE AND OBVIOUS
HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND IT DOES
RETAIN ITS INTEGRITY FROM THAT
TIME AND IT&apos;S THEREFORE
CONTRIBUTING HISTORIC STRUCTURE
AND ITS CHARACTER MATERIALS AND
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES MUST BE
MAINTAINED.
IT&apos;S A UNIQUE EXAMPLE OF OUR
MODERN ARCHITECTURE IN ANN
ARBOR OF WHICH THERE ARE FEW
REMAINING EXAMPLES.
&gt;&gt; NO CHANGES ARE PROPOSED TO
THE CORNER STORE FRONT AND MAIN
ENTRY WHICH IS APPRECIATED.
NO CHANGES PROPOSED TO THE
FOOTPRINT OF THE BUILDING.
THE CURRENT FLOOR AREA IS FIVE
THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED FOUR
SQUARE FEET AND THE PROPOSED
FOR AREA IS THIRTEEN THOUSAND
FIVE HUNDRED FOR INCREASE IN
FLOOR AREA OF TWO HUNDRED AND
FIFTY FOUR PERCENT AND I&apos;VE
ALREADY GONE THROUGH THE
PRESERVATION BRIEF FOURTEEN
INFORMATION.
&gt;&gt; SO WHILE THE WORK TO THE
EXTERIOR OF THE HISTORIC
BUILDING IS COMMENDABLE, STAFF
BELIEVES THE BUILDING ADDITIONS
AND THE REPLACEMENT STOREFRONT
AT 224 S MAIN ARE INCOMPATIBLE
WITH THE EXISTING BUILDING
BASED ON THE SECRETARY OF THE
INTERIOR STANDARDS AND
GUIDELINES AND GUIDANCE OFFERED
BY THE NATIONAL PARK SERVICE
AND PRESERVATION 314 FOR
ADDITIONS.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU MR. ARCHER.
COMMISSIONERS ROSS AND MYSELF
WERE ON THE REVIEW COMMITTEE.
COMMISSIONER RASTOGI MINISTER,
YOU WOULD CERTAINLY THANK YOU
THIS SO YEAH I BASICALLY AGREE
WITH THE STAFF REPORT YOU KNOW
OF COURSE STARTING OFF BY
COMMENDING THE APPLICANT AROUND
THE PROPOSAL OR THEIR EFFORT TO
BRING BACK THE MIDDLE PEDAL
SIGNING ON THE HISTORIC
EXTERIOR WALLS HISTORIC
BUILDING HERE YOUR WALLS.
BUT YOU KNOW, AS WE&apos;RE SITTING
AND HERE LISTENING
ALL THREE
ESSENTIALLY ALL THREE
GUIDELINES WANT TO INCLUDE THE
SECRETARY OF INTERIOR
STANDARDS, THE ANN ARBOR
GUIDELINES AS WELL AS THE
NATIONAL PARK SERVICE
GUIDELINES.
YOU KNOW THE THINGS WE&apos;RE
HEARING CONSISTENTLY WHEN IT
COMES TO ADDITIONS WE&apos;RE
HEARING THAT ADDITION TO BE
SUBSERVIENT ROOFTOP EDITION
SHOULD SET BACK FROM THE WALLS
OF THE ORIGINAL BUILDING
ADDITIONS SHOULD BE PROPERLY
SCALED.
DO NOT ADD ADDITIONS TO ONE
STOREY BUILDING.
SO JUST THROUGHOUT ALL THREE
SETS OF GUIDELINES OVER AND
OVER WE&apos;RE HEARING THAT WHAT&apos;S
BEING PROPOSED HERE JUST ISN&apos;T
HITTING HITTING THE MARK FOR
BEING APPROPRIATE IN THIS WITH
THIS PROJECT.
SO GENERALLY SPEAKING, YOU KNOW
THAT IN MY OPINION IT DOESN&apos;T
IT DOESN&apos;T IT&apos;S NOT MEETING THE
STANDARDS.
SO THAT&apos;S ALL I HAVE TO SAY AND
I AGREE WITH STAFF REPORT AND
COMMISSIONER ROSS&apos;S COMMENTS ON
THE SITE VISIT OF COURSE THIS
IS A EXTREMELY WELL KNOWN
OBVIOUSLY CORNER OF AN ARMORED
MINE IN LIBERTY, ONE OF THE
CORNERS IN ANN ARBOR I WOULD
SAY STATE AND LIBERTY IS THE
OTHER ONE.
&gt;&gt; UM, IT&apos;S A VERY, VERY HIGHLY
TRAVELED AREA.
&gt;&gt; PEOPLE KNOW THIS BUILDING
REALLY WELL.
I THINK ANY KIND OF ADDITION ON
THIS BUILDING WILL BE
DIFFICULT.
WOULD BE DIFFICULT IS DIFFICULT
TO SORT OF DESIGN AROUND
WITHOUT IT&apos;S OBVIOUSLY
EXTREMELY VISIBLE.
&gt;&gt; UM, SO ON THE SITE VISIT WE
WERE REALLY TALKING ABOUT THAT
WHAT IT WOULD BE TO ADD TO
STORY THREE STORIES ON THIS
BUILDING AS IT IS ALREADY UM
AND HOW THAT COULD POTENTIALLY
JUST CHANGE THE DYNAMICS
OF THAT CORNER, JUST HOW
VISIBLE ANY DESIGN IS AND WHAT
HEIGHT YOU KNOW,
DIFFERENTIATION IS AS YOU LOOK
IN SOME OF THE DRAWINGS IT
LOOKS LIKE THIS THIS BUILDING
IS GOING TO BE SLIGHTLY HIGHER
THAN THE BUILDING IMMEDIATELY
ADJACENT TO IT.
AND THEN THERE&apos;S ANOTHER
ADDITION A ROOFTOP VERSION THAT
SET BACK A LITTLE BIT MORE ON
TOP OF THAT.
&gt;&gt; BUT THE RAILING IS RIGHT UP
TO THE FRONT.
UM, AND WHILE THERE ARE THE
THREE STOREY BUILDINGS ON EVERY
SINGLE YOU KNOW, CORNER ACROSS
THE STREET AND ADJACENT MOST
OF THOSE I WOULD SAY ALL
OF THOSE ARE STILL WITHIN THEIR
HISTORIC CONTRIBUTING STATUS,
HISTORIC CHARACTER.
SO THIS EDITION THAT&apos;S PROPOSED
IS VERY DIFFERENT AND THAT&apos;S
NOT TO SAY THAT IT&apos;S YOU KNOW
THAT THE MATERIALS ARE
INAPPROPRIATE OR WHATNOT, BUT
I&apos;M NOT QUITE SURE THAT THE
DESIGN IS APPROPRIATE WITH THE
EXISTING BUILDING IN THE WAY IT
IS SO WE CAN I THINK GET INTO
SOME OF THAT A LITTLE BIT
FURTHER.
BUT I WOULD SAY THAT THAT IS MY
INITIAL UNDERTAKING WITH THE
WITH THIS PROJECT UM OUR
INITIAL PERCEPTION OF THE
PROJECT.
&gt;&gt; UH, THE APPLICANT IS HERE SO
IF YOU&apos;D LIKE TO COME TO THE
PODIUM, STATE YOUR NAME.
&gt;&gt; I HAVE A QUESTION.
SURE.
WELL, THIS BUILDING ORIGINALLY
NINETEEN 06 IT WAS A THREE
STOREY BUILDING BUILT IN
NINETEEN TWENTY.
IT WAS A THREE STOREY BUILDING
NINETEEN THIRTY IT WAS A THREE
STOREY BUILDING AND NINETEEN
THIRTY NINE BECAME A SINGLE
STOREY BUILDING SO THEY WERE
JUST DOING I THINK WAS JUST
GETTING READY TO RESTORE IT
BACK TO BEING A THREE STOREY
BUILDING AND SO THE NEVE THEY
WOULD LOOK AT THE HEIGHT OF THE
BUILDING WOULD BE THE SAME SIZE
AS THE BUILDING RIGHT NEXT DOOR
AND WE CAN GET FURTHER IN THE
DISCUSSION.
I&apos;LL JUST MAKE A POINT ABOUT
THAT AND SOME OF THE WORKING
SESSIONS WE DID DISCUSS THE
CONTRIBUTING STRUCTURE WHICH IS
THE SINGLE STORY CUNNINGHAMS
DRUG BUILDING SO THAT ONE
THAT&apos;S NINETEEN THIRTY NINE BUT
THAT IS WHAT WAS DEEMED THE
CONTRIBUTING HISTORIC RESOURCE.
OH YOU SEE THE REVIEW COMMITTEE
OR BY THE LET&apos;S FINISH THE
PUBLIC HEARING REAL QUICK THAT
WE CAN GET IN DISCUSSION.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
UM DEPRECATE SORRY YOU CAN COME
TO THE PODIUM STATE YOUR NAME
AND ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD AND
IF YOU&apos;D LIKE TO ADD ANYTHING
OF COURSE PLEASE DAVID ARTEX OR
STATE STREET ANN ARBOR,
MICHIGAN UH I WANT TO THANK
EVERYBODY FOR THEIR TIME.
I KNOW WE&apos;VE BEEN HERE BEFORE.
I KNOW WE&apos;VE BEEN DOING THIS
FOR A LITTLE WHILE.
UH, JILL, I THANK YOU FOR YOUR
FEDERAL REPORT.
WE I JUST WANT TO MAKE A COUPLE
OF QUICK STATEMENTS.
WE DO FEEL LIKE WE ARE
COMPLYING WITH THE SECRETARY
OF INTERIOR STANDARDS
SPECIFICALLY THREE, SIX AND 10.
&gt;&gt; AND I WILL REFER TO PAGE
TWENTY THREE OF THE OF THE
PACKET WHERE WE HAVE A BLOWN UP
DETAIL KIND OF OUTLINING WHAT
THAT PROFILE OF THE BUILDING
WOULD BE.
WE&apos;VE TALKED IN THE PAST ABOUT
THE STRUCTURAL MODIFICATIONS
THAT HAPPENED AND THEY TURNED
IT TO A ONE STOREY BUILDING AND
THEY MODIFIED THAT CORNER AND
THEY TWEAKED FOUNDATIONS IN THE
GENERAL FOOTPRINT OF THE
BUILDING BEING RATHER NARROW.
SO TO MAKE A VIABLE ADDITION,
HAVING TO UTILIZE THAT ENTIRE
FOOTPRINT TO GET THE FLOOR AREA
PROPER TO MAKE COMMERCIALLY
VIABLE THE BLOWN UP ADDITION
THERE DOES INDICATE BOTH THE
WALL PROFILE AND THE COLUMN
PROFILE AT THE BASE.
WE ARE PROPOSING A THREE INCH
SET BACK TO A REVEAL CHANNEL
THAT WOULD ADD ANOTHER FOUR
INCHES REVEALED IN COMPLIANCE
WITH A PORTION OF PRESERVATION
314 ADDING EXTRA LAYER
OF TENSION BETWEEN THE OLD AND
THE NEW.
WE ARE ALSO THEN TO THE GLAZING
FACE PROPOSING RECESSED GLAZING
UNITS THAT WILL ADD AN
ADDITIONAL NINE AND A HALF
INCHES.
SO AT THE COLUMNS TO THE
GLAZING BASE WHICH IS
PREDOMINANTLY THE UPPER STOREY
FACE WILL BE ROUGHLY ONE FOOT
FOUR AND A HALF INCHES AND FROM
FROM THE WALL PLAIN TO THE TO
THE BLAZING FACE WILL BE
ROUGHLY ONE FOOT ONE HALF INCH
.
&gt;&gt; SO WE HAVEN&apos;T GONE INTO
THOROUGH DETAIL OF ALL OF THAT
BUT WE HAVE BEEN MAKING
CONSIDERABLE EFFORT TO TRY AND
PULL THAT BACK AS FAR AS
STRUCTURALLY FEASIBLE WITHOUT
COMPROMISING THE INTEGRITY
OF THE STRUCTURE OF THE SECOND
FLOOR PLAN WILL BE CONSTRUCTED
ABOVE THE EXISTING ROOF AND
ABOVE THE THE ORIGINAL ORIGINAL
SECOND FLOOR THAT THE CURRENT
ROOF IS CONSTRUCTED ABOVE.
&gt;&gt; SO THE BUILDING WOULD BE
ABLE TO BE REMOVED AND RESTORE
THE HEIGHT AND SCALE TO THIS
ONE STOREY PORTION IN THE
FUTURE WITHOUT COMPROMISING
ANYTHING WHATSOEVER
.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, I DON&apos;T KNOW.
MAYBE THAT MIGHT BE THE EXTENT
OF WHAT I WANTED TO JUST TAKE A
SECOND TO POINT OUT BASED ON
BASED ON THE STAFF REPORT AND
I&apos;M HERE TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS I DID SEE THAT IN THE
STAFF REPORT THERE WAS A
QUESTION ABOUT HOW WE&apos;RE GOING
TO ADHERE TO THE PANEL&apos;S TO TO
THE BRICK AND IF WE GO INTO THE
MORTAR JOINTS WE WOULD GO INTO
THE MORTAR JOINTS.
WE ATTACH FLOORING STRIPS INTO
THOSE MORTAR JOINTS TO PRESERVE
THOSE BRICK FACES AND THEN
APPLY THE METAL PANEL TO THOSE
FURRING STRIPS.
SO I&apos;M HERE TO ANSWER MORE
QUESTIONS.
&gt;&gt; THEY SIT DOWN NOW YOU STAY
THERE.
UM, DO YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS
FOR THE APPLICANT?
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M SURE THE COMMISSIONER
SIR.
I HAVE A FEW QUESTIONS HERE.
LET ME GET OK I HAVE A FEW
QUESTIONS HERE, DAVID, BUT I
GUESS JUST THE FIRST ONE CAN
YOU EXPLAIN LIKE THE PROGRAM I
GUESS IF IT&apos;S KNOWN OF WHAT
WILL BE WHAT WILL PEOPLE BE
ACCESS GOING IN THE LIBERTY
STORE FRONT AND THEN ALSO THE
MAIN STREET STORE FRONT THE
MAIN STREET STOREFRONT IS
CURRENTLY PLANNED TO BE THE
ACCESS FOR THE UPPER STOREYS.
SO WHETHER THOSE BE COMMERCIAL
OR RESIDENTIAL, WE ARE LOOKING
AT TWO OF THE TWO FULL FLOORS
AS COMMERCIAL AND POTENTIALLY
THAT UPPER FOURTH FLOOR AS
PARTIAL RESIDENTIAL THAT WOULD
HAVE ACCESS TO THE ROOF.
THE ELEVATOR WOULD ALLOW FOR
THE BUSINESSES OF THE
COMMERCIAL USERS TO ALSO HAVE A
PRIVATE PATIO SPACE THERE.
THE THE LIBERTY STREET ENTRANCE
IS REALLY SOMETHING THAT CAME
OUT OF OUR DISCUSSIONS IN OUR
PREVIOUS WORK SESSIONS.
THERE&apos;S NOT NECESSARILY A PLAN
FOR AT THE MOMENT IT WOULD GO
IN AND POSSIBLY BE A FUTURE
SEPARATE ENTRANCE FOR THE FOR
THE RESIDENTIAL TO BE DIFFERENT
FROM THE COMMERCIAL SPACE OFF
OF MAIN STREET.
&gt;&gt; SO THERE&apos;S NO CURRENT PLAN
FOR EITHER OF THOSE STOREFRONTS
TO BE USED AS A RETAIL SPACE.
THEY THEY BOTH WOULD BE ACCESS
SPACE FOR EITHER THE THE
UPSTAIRS OR FOR THE FIRST FLOOR
BUT CORRECT.
&gt;&gt; I BELIEVE THAT IS THE
CURRENT THE CURRENT STATUS
OF WHERE THOSE LIVE NOW THAT I
THINK THAT IS FLEXIBLE AS WE GO
FORWARD AND THE PLANS TRYING TO
REFLECT THAT NATURE THE WAY
WE&apos;VE WHERE AND HOW WE&apos;VE
LOCATED THE STAIRS, SOME SLIGHT
MODIFICATIONS TO THE RESTROOMS
ON THE FIRST FLOOR ARE KIND
OF CENTERED AROUND THAT.
&gt;&gt; OK, OK.
NOW I HAVE SOME QUESTIONS ABOUT
THE DESIGN.
CAN YOU EXPLAIN I GUESS TWO
THINGS EXPLAIN IN THE PREVIOUS
VERSIONS WE SAW THIS WAS NOT AS
TALL AS THE NEIGHBORING
BUILDING AND ON MAIN STREET AND
NOW IT DOES APPEAR THAT IT&apos;S
ACTUALLY TALLER THAN THAT THAT
THAT BUILDING I GUESS PLEASE
EXPLAIN THE THINKING THERE AND
AND ALSO THE YOU&apos;VE HEARD ABOUT
THE STORE FRONT THE THE FORTY
STOREFRONT THAT THAT IS
HISTORIC AND YOU&apos;RE YOU&apos;RE
PROPOSING TO MODIFY IT.
SO I GUESS THOSE TWO THINGS I&apos;D
LIKE TO HEAR MORE ABOUT THE
THINKING BEHIND SO SO WITH THE
HEIGHT WE REALLY WANTED TO GO
ABOVE WHAT EXACTLY WHAT&apos;S
EXISTING TODAY.
SO THAT KIND OF DROVE SOME
OF THAT FLOOR HEIGHT UP TO
WHERE JUST WE STARTED THE
SECOND FLOOR AND CONSEQUENTLY
THE ADDITIONAL FLOORS ABOVE,
YOU KNOW, MOVED UP IN
CONJUNCTION WHEN WE FIRST CAME
BEFORE YOU GUYS WE HAD ALIGNED
IT WITH THE BUILDING TO THE
DIRECTLY TO THE NORTH OF US.
BUT IN JUST THROUGH THAT EXTRA
DEVELOPMENT AND TRYING TO
PRESERVE EXACTLY WHAT WAS THERE
ON THE GROUND FLOOR, EVERYTHING
KIND OF ROSE UP A LITTLE BIT
HIGHER.
THE CLIENT ALSO HAD A A DESIRE
TO MAKE THIS A GREEN AND VERY
SUSTAINABLE BUILDING AND THE
ADDITION OF THE GREEN ROOF ON
THE TOP REQUIRED A LITTLE BIT
MORE DEPTH OR HEIGHT ON THAT
UPPER LEVEL.
SO SO WE WERE TRYING TO KEEP
BEFORE THE RAILING STARTS TO
THAT ROOFLINE THAT GREEN ROOF
LINE TO BE JUST ABOUT EVEN WITH
THE EXISTING BUILDING TO THE
NORTH OF IT THAT WAS
HISTORICALLY PREVIOUS TO THE
MODIFICATION TO THE BUILDING
WHERE THE CAP WAS KIND OF SET
TO THE STOREFRONT ON THE ON
MAIN STREET KNOW WE&apos;RE
PROPOSING LEAVING THE OUTSIDE
FACE SO NO MODIFICATION.
THERE ARE THREE KNUCKLES KIND
OF AS YOU GO BACK THAT WEAVES
IN AND OUT.
SO THE THE THOUGHT THERE WAS
AGAIN DUE TO THE LIMITED NATURE
OF THE FOUR PLATE ITSELF IF WE
PULLED THAT STAIR AND THAT THAT
ELEVATOR CORE UP SLIGHTLY BUT
LEAVE THE FIRST THE FIRST TWO
KNUCKLES OF THE OF THE NINETEEN
FORTY STOREFRONT THAT MIGHT BE
A COMPROMISE THAT WE COULD WORK
WITH WITH YOU ALL IT IT
APPEARED THAT AND MAYBE THE
VERY FIRST PROJECT YOU SHOWED
US THE THE MAIN STREET FACADE
HAS PULLED BACK QUITE A WAY
QUITE A WAYS IS THAT AM I
REMEMBERING THAT CORRECTLY OR I
THINK WELL I THINK THE VERY
FIRST ONE WAS A RESTORATION
OF YEAH THAT ONE RIGHT THERE
ITALIANATE FACADE THAT TOP
PICTURE LOOKS LIKE THE FACADE
IS IS BACK IS THAT I THINK WHAT
IT&apos;S GOING ON THERE I THINK
POTENTIALLY IT&apos;S JUST THE WAY
THE VIEW IS WE&apos;RE OUT TO THE
BUILDING EDGE WE&apos;RE STILL AT
THAT FORTY FIVE CUTTING ACROSS
TO WHERE THEY PUT NEW STRUCTURE
AT THE CORNER.
OK, WE&apos;RE DOING MASONRY WALLS
THERE.
IT MIGHT JUST BE HOW IT READS
WITH WITH THE SHADOWS FROM THE
WINDOWS BEING INSET THERE&apos;S
EXTRA DETAILING AND FRAMING
AROUND THOSE WINDOWS TO TRY TO
CAPTURE SOME OF THE ESTHETIC
INSETS CREATED IN IN STORE
WINDOWS.
SO I THINK THAT&apos;S PROBABLY PART
OF WHAT&apos;S WHAT&apos;S RIGHT THERE.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
AND THEN JUST I GUESS THIS
PHOTO&apos;S OR THIS RENDERINGS
GOOD.
I DON&apos;T SEE IT IN THIS
RENDERING BUT THIS IS THIS IS
SORT OF A SMALL DETAIL BUT IT
LOOKED LIKE THERE WAS A WALL
SEPARATING THE PRIVATE PATIO
FROM THE PUBLIC PATIO AND I&apos;M
NOT SEEING IT HERE AND I SAW IT
ON THE FLOOR PLANS AND IT WAS
JUST A DELINEATION IN LINE TO
SAY THAT THERE MIGHT BE SOME
SORT OF SMALL SCREENING THAT
OCCURS.
IT WOULDN&apos;T BE PART OF THE
BUILDING FOR SAY BUT SET ON TOP
OF THE PATIO SPACE SO THEY
COULD HAVE SOME FLEXIBILITY IN
HOW IT GETS USED LIKE AN EIGHT
FOOT WALL SO THAT YOU CAN&apos;T SEE
ONE FOR THE OTHER.
&gt;&gt; IT MIGHT JUST BE IT MIGHT
JUST END UP BEING A ROW BAR
PROVIDES OR SOME SORT
OF VEGETATED SCREEN TO PROVIDE
SOME SOME VISUAL PRIVACY AT
THAT UPPER LEVEL.
&gt;&gt; THANKS.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS?
NONE RIGHT NOW.
OK, I WILL OPEN THE PUBLIC
HEARING PORTION FOR THIS
APPLICATION AT TWO TWENTY FOUR
SOUTH MAIN STREET PUBLIC
COMMENT MAY BE MADE BY EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN.
UH THIS INFORMATION IS ALSO
DISPLAYED ON THE MEETING AGENDA
AND VIDEO FEED IN ORDER TO
ELECTRONICALLY RAISE YOUR HAND
PLUS PRESS STAR NINE ON YOUR
PHONE.
&gt;&gt; KRISTEN, DO WE HAVE ANY
CALLERS?
THERE ARE NO CALLERS.
UH, I WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING PORTION AS YOUR
COMMISSIONER THAT WOULD LIKE TO
MAKE A MOTION ON THE
APPLICATION
.
I CAN GET TO, UH, OK.
I MOVE THAT THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION ISSUED A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
FOR THE APPLICATION OF TWO
TWENTY FOUR AND TO TWENTY SIX S
MAIN STREET A CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE MAIN STREET
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO CONSTRUCT
THREE ADDITIONAL FLOORS TO THE
BUILDING, INSTALL REPLICA METAL
CLADDING ON THE FIRST FLOOR,
INSTALL A NEW STOREFRONT AT THE
WEST END OF THE BUILDING ON THE
SOUTH ELEVATION AND INSTALL A
NEW STOREFRONT AT TWO TWENTY
FOUR S MAIN AS PROPOSED THE
WORK IS COMPATIBLE AND EXTERIOR
DESIGN ARRANGEMENT TEXTURE
MATERIAL AND RELATIONSHIP TO
THE SURROUNDING RESOURCES AND
MEETS THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR
ALL EDITIONS AND FOR ADDITIONS
TO COMMERCIAL STRUCTURES AND
THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS REHABILITATION AND
GUIDELINES FOR REHABILITATING
HISTORIC BUILDINGS IN
PARTICULAR STANDARDS ONE TWO
THREE FOUR FIVE SIX, NINE AND
TEN AND THE GUIDELINES FOR
ADDITIONS WINDOWS AND DISTRICT
NEIGHBORHOOD SETTING SUPPORT
MOVED BACK MR. K.A. SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER WHITE THEIR
DISCUSSION ON THE MOTION
.
I HAD A QUESTION FOR IF I MAY
TWO QUESTIONS.
ONE IS THE THE PRESERVATION
BRIEF.
I READ THROUGH THAT AND IT WAS
EXTREMELY INFORMATIVE AND
HELPFUL PARTICULARLY IN THIS
PROJECT AND I SUPPOSE I WAS
READING IT AND THEN THINKING
ABOUT IT IN TERMS OF THE
STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES AND I
JUST COULD YOU EXPLAIN HOW YOU
KNOW, WE TALK ABOUT THE
STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES THAT&apos;S
IN THE BYLAWS IS IS THIS WHAT
IS THE PRESERVATION BRIEF AND
HOW DOES IT RELATE TO THE THE
OTHER TOOLS THAT WE USE TO MAKE
DECISIONS?
&gt;&gt; THE PRESERVATION BRIEFS COME
FROM THE NATIONAL PARK SERVICE
COME FROM THE SECRETARY
OF INTERIOR VIA THE NATIONAL
PARK SERVICE AND THEIR
SUPPLEMENTAL MATERIALS TO
BETTER EXPLAIN THE GUIDELINES
THAT THEY PUBLISH FOR ALL
PROPERTIES.
THERE ARE PROBABLY 30 OF THEM
OR MORE AND THEY GET INTO
SPECIFIC TOPICS WHERE THEY FEEL
THAT MORE GUIDANCE IS NEEDED.
WE HAVEN&apos;T USED THEM A WHOLE
LOT I THINK IN PART BECAUSE WE
HAVE A LOT OF RESIDENTIAL
PROPERTIES AND BECAUSE WE HAVE
DESIGN GUIDELINES THAT ARE IN
ADDITION TO THE SECRETARY
OF INTERIOR GUIDELINES.
BUT BUT WE HAVE USED THEM FOR
THINGS LIKE STEEL WINDOWS TO
GET MORE INFORMATION AND MORE
GUIDANCE ON HOW TO GO ABOUT
REPLACING OR RESTORING THOSE.
AND THEY&apos;RE ALSO CONSIDERED
GUIDELINES.
THEY&apos;RE THEY&apos;RE LEGIT SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR GUIDELINES.
THEY&apos;RE JUST VERY TOPICS
SPECIFIC.
AND IF WHEN YOU READ IT YOU
PROBABLY NOTICED THAT IT HAS
MORE NARRATIVE THAN A TYPICAL
GUIDELINE BUT IT ALSO HAS
THINGS THAT LOOK LIKE TYPICAL
GUIDELINES LAID OUT SORT OF IN
SUMMARY AND THAT&apos;S SOME OF THE
THE LANGUAGE THAT I PUT INTO
THE STAFF REPORT.
SO YOU ARE ABLE TO USE THOSE AS
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR&apos;S
GUIDELINES IF YOU THINK THEY&apos;RE
APPLICABLE.
GREAT EXPLANATION.
THANK YOU.
THE OTHER QUESTION I HAD IS I&apos;M
JUST TRYING TO JOG MY MEMORY.
THERE WAS SOMETHING WITH THE
WITH THE ART MODERNE FACA WHERE
DID IT GO UP AND DOWN?
WAS THERE A CHANGE TO THE
HEIGHT OF THE PARAPET OR AM I
MISREMEMBERING SOMETHING?
&gt;&gt; I REMEMBER THAT CONVERSATION
I WAS TRYING TO LOOK AT THE
PHOTOS AND I COULDN&apos;T SEE AN
EXAMPLE OF ONE VERSUS ANOTHER.
SO THEN I WAS THINKING THAT I
WAS REMEMBERING SOMETHING
INCORRECTLY.
&gt;&gt; OK, SO IT&apos;S IT&apos;S SHOWN IN
THE RENDERINGS AS STRAIGHT
ACROSS MAYBE DAVID KNOWS ME
BETTER THAN ANYONE.
YEAH.
FROM ALL THE RESEARCH YOU&apos;VE
DONE IN DOCUMENTATION WE&apos;VE
FOUND ON THE BUILDING IT WAS
STRAIGHT ACROSS THERE DID
APPEAR TO BE SOME SOME
INCLINATION THAT CALM&apos;S MAYBE
WEREN&apos;T GOING TO BE EXPOSED AS
THEY ARE TODAY.
BUT THE PHOTOGRAPHS CLEARLY
SHOW WHAT WHAT THEY WHAT THEY
BUILT.
SO WE HAVE NOT FOUND ANYTHING
THAT DEVIATES AT ALL FROM THAT
ROUGHLY TWENTY TWO FOOT BELIEVE
PARAPET HEIGHT ACROSS THE
ENTIRE STRUCTURE.
THANK YOU.
I&apos;M GLAD WE DID.
WE DID IF I CAN ADD TO DISCUSS
AT SOME OF THE DC MEETINGS A
VARIATION OF SOME HIGHLIGHTS
OF CORNICES UP AT THE TOP.
YOU KNOW WE TRIED TO DO THAT A
LITTLE BIT BUT NOT TO TRY TO
TAKE AWAY FROM ANYTHING IT HAD
TO DO WITH KIND OF THE
HORIZONTAL NATURE OF THE ART
MODERNE FACADE OF THE ONE STORY
AND KIND OF ACCENTUATED ALMOST
WITH A VERTICAL EXPRESSION UP
ABOVE THAT THAT WAS MORE
REPETITIOUS TO BE DEFINING
AGAINST THAT ONE STORY PIECE TO
HELP HIGHLIGHTED OTHER
COMMENTS.
&gt;&gt; I GUESS I&apos;LL JUST ADD ONE
MORE THING AND MAYBE THIS
RELATES TO WHAT COMMISSIONER
WHITE WAS SAYING IS JUST TO
READ NUMBER FOUR OF THE
SECTARIAN STERIA STANDARDS
AGAIN WHICH SAYS CHANGES TO A
PROPERTY THAT HAVE ACQUIRED
HISTORIC SIGNIFICANCE IN THEIR
OWN RIGHT WILL BE RETAINED AND
PRESERVED.
SO IT IS THAT THE STANDARD THAT
SAYS THAT YES, THERE&apos;S BEEN
MANY CHANGES TO THIS PROPERTY
THAT HAPPENED DURING A PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE BUT THIS
PARTICULAR CHANGE ACQUIRED
HISTORIC SIGNIFICANCE IN ITS
OWN RIGHT AND SO THEREFORE IT
SHOULD BE RETAINED AND
PRESERVED.
I WOULD AGREE WITH THAT
STATEMENT BECAUSE AT THE END
OF THE DAY I YOU KNOW AND I
GUESS THIS IS GOING TO STUFF
JUST TO CONFIRM THIS BUILDING
AS IT IN THIS ITERATION HAS
BEEN CALLED OUT AS CONTRIBUTING
IN THE SURVEY.
YES, IT HAS BEEN YEAH.
I MEAN THAT&apos;S GOOD.
THAT&apos;S FINE ALL ALONG
THROUGHOUT TIME IT&apos;S BEEN THERE
WHEN I FIRST CAME OUT
CONTRIBUTING YES.
&gt;&gt; THERE WAS A CONTRIBUTING
STRUCTURE HERE THAT WAS TWO
THIRDS DEMOLISHED.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S RIGHT AND NOW WE HAVE A
NEW CONTRIBUTING STRUCTURE THAT
IS A PERIOD OF SIGNIFICANCE YOU
HAVE TO LOOK AT IT IS RESTORING
RESPECT WHERE YOU HAD TWO STORE
IF IT STARTED OFF THE STARTED
OFF IN NINETEEN EIGHTY SIX WITH
TWO THREE STORES NINETEEN
TWENTY THREE STORES IT HAD MORE
TIME AS A THREE STORY BUILDING
BUT HAS IS THE BUILDING SINCE
NINETEEN THIRTY NINE HE PUT
TIME SO I WOULD SAY IF IT HAD
IT WAS GOOD MONTHS IT PROBABLY
PATENAUDE SIX
IN NINETEEN
SEVENTY ONE IT SAYS NINETY
THREE I THINK THE GUIDELINE
NUMBER OR I WAS JUST READ BY
COMMISSIONER ROCHLIN I THINK IS
CLEAR AND YOU KNOW I THINK
ESTABLISHING AND ALSO WITH THE
SURVEY ESTABLISHING THIS SINGLE
STOREY BUILDING AS THE
CONTRIBUTING RESOURCE THAT
WE&apos;RE REACTING AGAINST RIGHT
NOW IS CRITICAL.
I THINK THE OTHER PIECE ABOUT
WHAT YOU&apos;RE MAKING OR THE POINT
YOU&apos;RE MAKING, BOB, IS THAT
THERE WELL, THIS WAS A THREE
STOREY STRUCTURE AT VARIOUS
POINTS HISTORICALLY IT HAD
DIFFERENT ITERATIONS ITALIANATE
IT CHANGED ITS WINDOWS.
IT HAD DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
SO I THINK IN THE WORKING
SESSION THERE INITIALLY THERE
WAS A A DESIGN THAT KIND
OF RESTORED ONE ITERATION
OF THAT BUILDING.
SO THAT BROUGHT UP TO US AS A
COMMISSION AND THE QUESTION
OF WHICH WHICH RESOURCE IS
REALLY THE ONE TO TO PRESERVE
OR TO RECONSTRUCT AND THAT THAT
ITSELF BROUGHT UP AN ISSUE
OF LIKE WHICH WHICH IS THE
THING.
&gt;&gt; SO I THINK I DON&apos;T TO ME
IT&apos;S IT&apos;S A LITTLE BIT LESS
OF THE THE THREE STORY IN TOTAL
BUT THE I THINK RIGHT NOW THE
AS PROPOSED IN ITS DESIGN THE
THINGS THAT I&apos;M READING AS FAR
AS THE THE MAJORITY OF THE
GUIDELINES TALK ABOUT STEP BACK
FROM THE BUILDING FACADE NOT
OVERSHADOWING THE CONTRIBUTING
RESOURCE.
AND IF I LOOK I THINK FOR FOR
ME THE MOST SIGNIFICANT THINGS
TO LOOK AT IN THIS DESIGN AND
MAYBE THE PREVIOUS ITERATION
OF THIS DESIGN WHICH IS VERY
SIMILAR TO WORKING SESSION
NUMBER THREE, THERE WAS A LOT
MORE CONSIDERATION ABOUT
STEPPING BACK IN AND PLAYING
FROM THAT THAT FRONT WALL
FACADE THAT I THINK MACING WISE
WAS A LITTLE IT BECAME ALMOST
MORE APPROPRIATE OR MORE
COMPATIBLE WITH HOW YOU MIGHT
READ SOME OF THOSE THOSE
PILLARS ALONG THE FACADE ON THE
LOWER STOREY THAT IT IT GAVE A
LITTLE BIT MORE ROOM FOR THAT
SINGLE STOREY BUILDING TO I
THINK READ AS ITS SINGLE STORY
.
I&apos;M LOOKING AT PAGE SHOOBRIDGE
TWENTY SEVEN NINETEEN IN THIS
MIDDLE PACKETT THAT THAT BOTTOM
IMAGE IT BROKE UP THE LONG
PLANE OF THE GLASS AND ALUMINUM
OR METAL PANEL THAT IS BEING
PROPOSED CURRENTLY AND THE
DESIGN AND I THINK WELL YOU&apos;RE
STEPPING BACK NOW IN THIS
CURRENT DESIGN IT&apos;S REALLY
MINIMAL AND THAT&apos;S NOT
SOMETHING THAT YOU THAT IS
REALLY I THINK LEGIBLE ON ON
THE BUILDING SCALE ITSELF.
SO I THINK AND EVEN ANOTHER
ANOTHER PORTION IN THE MIDDLE
IN FRONT OF US TODAY IS THAT
FLAT PLAIN WHEN I LOOK OF THE
ANGLED CURTAIN WALL THAT GOES
STRAIGHT UP.
&gt;&gt; SO IF I YOU KNOW, JUMP
FORWARD MAYBE TO VIEW ONE ON
PAGE TWENTY ONE I SEE THE
PRETZEL BELL FACADE WHERE IT&apos;S
ROUNDED OFF AND THEN I SEE
ANOTHER GLASS PANE AND THAT
ALMOST TO ME STARTS TO COMPETE
WITH THE PRETZEL BELL BUILDING
ITSELF AND THE SCALE THAT I
READ AS THE PRETZEL BILL ARE
KEEP CALLING THAT THE PRETZEL
BELL BUILDING BUT THIS YOU KNOW
SINGLE STORY WHAT WAS
CUNNINGHAM DRUGS WHERE IS KIND
OF AN ELONGATED FACADE NOW A
BUILDING IS READING MUCH MORE
VERTICALLY AND I THINK THAT&apos;S A
BIG CHANGE IN THAT&apos;S MESSINE
SCALE.
SO THAT STARTS TO BREAK DOWN UM
A LOT OF THE GUIDELINES THAT
WE&apos;RE LOOKING AT AND WHERE I
THINK IT&apos;S IT&apos;S NOT COMPATIBLE
AND IT&apos;S DESIGN IF I CAN JUST
ASK FOR SOME CLARIFICATION.
YOU&apos;RE REFERRING TO WORKING
SESSION THREE.
YEAH, BECAUSE I BELIEVE IF I
WAS NOT PRESENT FOR ONE OF THE
QUESTIONS I HAD PRIOR
ENGAGEMENT SO ANOTHER PERSON
FROM MY OFFICE WAS HERE AT THAT
PRESENTATION BUT THE REQUEST
WAS MADE FROM THE PLANNING FROM
HGC COMMISSION TO RESTORE THE
FORTY FIVE THAT WE HAD SHOWN
FROM WORKING SESSION TO SO I
THINK IT WAS A QUESTION ABOUT
WHY IT WAS LIKE THAT AND YOU
KNOW THE OTHER ONE MAYBE IT WAS
MORE COMPATIBLE OR NOT BUT I
THINK IT WAS A QUESTION ABOUT
WHY THERE WAS A CHANGE AND FOR
ME I THINK THAT THAT ANGLE THE
WAY IT&apos;S DEPICTED TODAY ON THE
THE PROPOSED DESIGN IS
COMPETING A LITTLE BIT MORE
ESPECIALLY READING IN THE FULL
PLANE AND MAYBE IT&apos;S JUST THAT
VIEW THAT WAS CHOSEN TO BE
DISPLAYED BUT HMM.
&gt;&gt; BUT THEIR FIRST SESSION THAT
THEY CAME TO WAS THERE WAS FROM
LIBERTY AND MANGED.
ONE WAS IT WAS THERE WAS I
THINK I THINK YOU&apos;RE RIGHT IT
WAS A WHILE AGO SO TO AMEND
THAT STATEMENT THAT I MADE
DAVID BUT I BELIEVE WE WERE
ALSO MODIFYING THAT ENTIRE
STOREFRONT ON THAT SIDE TO
BRING IT DOWN AND BE RECESSED
BEHIND THE BEHIND THE STILL
INTACT OUR MODERNE CLADDING
PANELS THE CORNER AND THAT WAS
PART OF THAT BECAUSE WE WERE
REDOING A LOT OF STRUCTURE IN
THAT FIRST IN THAT FIRST
ITERATION THEN WE HAVE IT WAS
THE FIRST SESSION AND WE KEPT
MOVING THE GOALPOST AND WE WE
HAD THIS ONE WHICH IS THE
FOURTH FLOOR
RENDITION AND NOW
WE KIND OF MOVED THE TARGETS
AND NOW YOU WANT IT TO BE A
SINGLE STOREY I&apos;M NOT SAYING I
WANT IT TO BE A SINGLE STORY.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M SAYING I THINK IN 1939
IT WAS A SINGLE STRING.
WE WERE EVEN LOOKING AT THREE
STORIES FROM DAY ONE ON THESE
WORKSTATION AND IT&apos;S ONE
OF THOSE THINGS THAT LOOK BACK
IN TIME AND INSIGNIFICANT AND
WE HAD THIS NINETEEN THIRTY
NINE AS YOU SAY BUT WE NEED IT
HERE AND THEY PROBABLY WERE
LOOKING AT NINETEEN SIX AND
NINETEEN TWENTY IN NINETEEN
THIRTY AND THEN THE THING THEY
GAVE US WAS SET BACK WHEN THEY
FIRST CAME IN THE DOOR AND THEN
FACTORS THE THIRD ONE A
DIFFERENT LOOK AS WELL AND THIS
IS OUR OUR FOURTH PROJECT IS
COME IN WE&apos;RE AND NOW WE&apos;RE
THINKING SINGLE STOREY I MEAN
WE KEEP MOVING THE GOALPOSTS I
DON&apos;T THINK ANYONE SAYING A
SINGLE STORY OH OK.
I THINK THAT THE QUESTION IS IS
THAT WHAT&apos;S PROPOSED COMPATIBLE
WITH THE SINGLE STORY
CONTRIBUTING STRUCTURE TO ME
THAT&apos;S THE QUESTION.
&gt;&gt; WELL, THE MOST I HAVE ON THE
GUIDELINES THE MOST COMPATIBLE
ONE WAS THE SESSION.
&gt;&gt; WHAT DO OTHER COMMISSIONERS
HAVE WITH THE REST OF THE
NEIGHBORHOOD?
HAS BRICK BUILT AND THAT WASN&apos;T
THAT GIVING A FALSE SENSE
OF HISTORY?
WELL WELL I MEAN IT WAS THE
COUPLE OF THINGS THAT WERE
DIFFERENT ON THIS BUILDING THE
BUILDING NEW WINDOWS.
THEY DIDN&apos;T HAVE THE OLD
WINDOWS OR IF YOU LOOKED AT THE
BUILDING TWO STORIES UP IT
DOESN&apos;T GET THE REST OF THE
BUILDING BECAUSE THE BUILDINGS
HAVE OH WINDOWS I SHOULD SAY
OLDER LOOKING WINDOWS SINCE
NINETEEN THIRTY NINE TWENTY
TWENTY TWO WINDOWS TENDED A
WHOLE LOT OF THINGS ARE
DIFFERENT.
&gt;&gt; OK AND YOU KNOW I JUST I
GUESS I WOULD JUST SAY AT THE
END OF THE DAY RIGHT NOW WE&apos;RE
LOOKING AT THIS THIS DESIGN WAS
PUT IN FRONT OF US.
I MEAN IN MY MIND THE DESIGN
SESSIONS IT&apos;S NEVER LIKE A
GUARANTEE.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S SOMEBODY PUTTING
SOMEBODY PUTTING A DESIGN IN
FRONT OF US ASKING FOR OUR
INPUT.
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;RE PROVIDING IT.
BUT THAT DOESN&apos;T MEAN THAT THAT
AT THE END OF THE DAY, HEY,
YOU&apos;RE GOING TO GET YOUR DOWN
AT THE END OF THE DAY THAT&apos;S
WHAT WE&apos;RE LOOKING AT RIGHT
HERE HAS GOT TO MEET THOSE
STANDARDS IN ORDER FOR AN
APPROVAL.
&gt;&gt; WHAT ABOUT YOU SESSION ONE?
HOW DOES THAT LOOK TO WHAT
WE&apos;RE NOT PAID TO LOOK AT AND
PAY TO LOOK RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; BUT WE&apos;RE NOT REVIEWING
SESSION.
NO, I&apos;M JUST SAYING IT WAS AN
OUT ACTUALLY I&apos;M GOING TO LET
SOMEBODY ELSE SPEAK BECAUSE I
MADE SOME COMMENTS BUT I&apos;M
PRETTY CERTAIN THEY&apos;RE STILL
PRETTY I.
WHAT WAS IT?
I FEEL PRETTY READY WITH OK
MOVING ON.
&gt;&gt; DOES ANYONE ELSE HAVE ANY
COMMENTS OR ARE WE READY TO
VOTE OR DISCUSS?
I I DON&apos;T KNOW THIS PROBABLY
ISN&apos;T VERY HELPFUL BUT JUST YOU
KNOW WE AS A THAT WE OFTEN DEAL
WITH A LOT MORE RESIDENTIAL
TYPE PROJECTS.
WE&apos;RE JUST FULL SCALE SINGLE
FAMILY AND EVEN IN THOSE
PROPERTIES WHERE IT&apos;S AT A
CORNER THOSE ARE ALWAYS ARE
OFTEN THE MOST CHALLENGING
PROPERTIES BECAUSE THEY&apos;RE
HIGHLY VISIBLE FROM ALMOST
EVERY ANGLE AND THEN HERE
SPORADIC AGAIN AND YOU KNOW,
IT&apos;S A MORE URBAN SETTING.
&gt;&gt; WE IN ONE REGARD I WOULD IT
WOULD MAKE SENSE AT THIS CORNER
FOR THIS FOURTH OUT OF ALL THE
FOUR CORNERS OF THIS
INTERSECTION TO STAND ITS
GROUND AND AND JOIN THE OTHER
OTHER BUILDINGS IN STATURE WITH
MULTIPLE FLOORS.
BUT I THINK IT AGAIN IT&apos;S
CHALLENGING TO DO IT IN A WAY
THAT MEETS AND COMPLIES WITH
THE STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES
AND THE ALL THE WORKING
SESSIONS I I COMMEND THE THE
TEAM THE DESIGN TEAM FOR COMING
AND WORKING WITH US AND I THINK
IT AND HOPE THAT WE&apos;RE HELPFUL
CONVERSATIONS.
YOU KNOW, WE DIDN&apos;T SOLVE
EVERYTHING BUT THERE WAS
DEFINITELY EVOLUTION IN THE
DESIGN AND IN SOME WAYS LIKE I
THINK YOU DID HEAR THE FEEDBACK
THAT WE WERE PROVIDING BUT I
DON&apos;T THINK THEY&apos;RE JUST YET SO
IN MY OPINION I AGREE WITH
COMMISSIONER AND LIKE YEAH,
YOU&apos;RE SAYING THIS IS A VERY
CHALLENGING SITE.
&gt;&gt; I WILL SAY THAT PARTICULARLY
WHAT&apos;S BEEN DONE WITH THE FIRST
FLOOR, THE HISTORIC PART AS A
RESTORATION.
&gt;&gt; YOU KNOW, NOTWITHSTANDING
THE MAIN STREET STOREFRONT.
BUT BUT THE THE METAL PANELS
IT&apos;S IT&apos;S LOOKING AT IT&apos;S IT&apos;S
VERY INSPIRING AND YOU KNOW, IT
WOULD BE GREAT TO SEE THAT THAT
BUILT BUT OBVIOUSLY WE HAVE TO
LOOK AT IT AS A WHOLE PROJECT.
I THINK THAT THE FACT THAT IT&apos;S
TALLER THAN THE NEIGHBORING
BUILDING REALLY CONFUSES ME.
BUT THAT THAT&apos;S MAYBE SOMETHING
THAT I FIRST NOTICED.
BUT I JUST WANT TO GET BACK TO
THE STAFF REPORT WHERE WE&apos;RE
TALKING ABOUT THE PRESERVATION
BRIEF AND I THINK THAT I I
DIDN&apos;T NECESSARILY HAVE THESE
IN MY HEAD BEFORE READING THE
STAFF REPORT.
BUT IF YOU LOOK AT A PART EIGHT
,IT&apos;S HARD TO IT&apos;S HARD TO SEE
HOW A ADDITIONS LIKE ANY
ADDITIONS WOULD BE POSSIBLE
HERE OR AT LEAST ANY TWO OR
THREE STORY ADDITIONS BECAUSE
IT SAYS, YOU KNOW, THE EDITION
CANNOT BE HIGHLY VISIBLE FROM
THE PUBLIC RIGHT AWAY.
THE EDITION CANNOT BE
SUBORDINATE INSIDE OR THE
EDITION SHOULD BE SUBORDINATE
AND SIZE AND DESIGN ARE
DESIGNED TO THE OUR BUILDING.
THE ADDITIONS SHOULD BE
MINIMALLY VISIBLE.
THE ROOFTOP EDITION SHOULD BE
SET BACK AT LEAST ONE FULL DAY
FROM THE PRIMARY ELEVATION AND
THE ADDITIONS SHOULD NOT BE
MORE THAN ONE STORY IN HEIGHT.
SO I MEAN WITH THAT EXTRA
EXPLANATION FROM THE
PRESERVATION BRIEF IT JUST
SEEMS THAT THE STANDARDS BECOME
MUCH CLEARER AS TO WHAT IS
POSSIBLE HERE IF WE ARE SAYING
I MEAN THE STAFF REPORT TO BE
FAIR ALSO SAYS THAT IT DOES DO
CERTAIN THINGS FROM THE
PRESERVATION BRIEF BUT
OF COURSE WE YOU HAVE TO MEET
ALL THE STANDARDS RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; NOT JUST SOME OF THE
STANDARDS.
SO THE DESIGN IS DISTINGUISHED
FROM IN DESIGN AND MATERIALS
FROM THE HISTORIC BUILDING
CERTAINLY AT CONSTRUCTION
MATERIALS ARE MODERN BUT
HARMONIOUS AND THIS ONE
ADJACENT BUILDINGS ARE
CURRENTLY TALLER THAN THIS ONE
AND THE RESULTING BUILDING
WOULD BE SIMILAR SIZE TO
ADJACENT BUILDINGS.
SO THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S MAYBE ONE THAT
IT&apos;S NOT QUITE DOING IT&apos;S
ALMOST DOING THE FIRST SESSION
IT DID MEET THAT STANDARD IF
YOU LOOK ON PAGE ELEVEN AND YOU
LOOK AT THE BUILDING WELL IT
WAS MORE THAN ONE STORY IN
HEIGHT.
YES.
PROCESSES THERE WERE MORE THAN
ONE STORY.
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
READY FOR A VOTE?
&gt;&gt; IT CAN&apos;T ASK A CLARIFYING
POINT JUST OF ORDER.
SO THE MOTION ON THE FLOOR WAS
TO APPROVE CORRECT?
&gt;&gt; YES.
THAT&apos;S A THAT DOESN&apos;T PASS TO
BE ANOTHER MOTION.
&gt;&gt; NO IF THAT MOTION FAILS WE
DON&apos;T MAKE AN ADDITIONAL MOTION
.
IT JUST DOESN&apos;T PASS SO THE
WORK IS NOT APPROVED.
OK, YEAH ALL OF OUR MOTIONS ARE
WORDED IN THE AFFIRMATIVE.
OK, I THINK I THINK WE MIGHT
WANT TO TABLE THIS FOR FOR THE
NEXT WORKING SESSION, MAYBE
ADDRESS SOME OF THE THINGS THAT
WE&apos;VE HEARD TONIGHT AND MAKE
SOME ADJUSTMENTS.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M NOT SURE IF THAT&apos;S
APPROPRIATE TO DO OR NOT.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S UP TO THE
COMMISSIONERS IF THERE ARE
CHANGES THAT CAN BE MADE WITHIN
THE NEXT TWO WEEKS TO GET INTO
THE NEXT PACKETT, THAT&apos;S AT
THEIR DISCRETION.
IF THIS DESIGN IS NOT TALKABLE
THEN THEY&apos;LL PROBABLY JUST TAKE
ACTION TONIGHT.
OK, CAN YOU DO THAT?
DO YOU THINK YOU CAN COME BACK
WITH THE DESIGN IN TWO WEEKS
AND I THINK WE CAN TABLE I
THINK THERE&apos;S BEEN A LOT
OF GOOD CONVERSATION.
I DON&apos;T WANT TO YOU KNOW, TAKE
THE PAST WORKING SESSIONS AND
AND GET RID OF KIND OF WHERE
THAT LED US TO.
BUT I THINK I DID HEAR A COUPLE
OF CONSIDERATIONS THAT I THINK
WE MIGHT BE ABLE TO ACCOMMODATE
IN THE NEXT TWO WEEKS WE TABLE
I HAVE A I HAVE A QUESTION JUST
LIKE SO WE TONIGHT UNDERSTAND
COMMISSIONER RUSTAVI SORRY.
&gt;&gt; SO IF WE DENY THIS THAT
STILL ENABLES THE APPLICANT TO
COME BACK WITH A NEW DESIGN BUT
HE HAS TO PAY ANOTHER FEE.
THAT&apos;S WHAT WE DO.
SO WE&apos;RE GOING BOY WE&apos;RE GOING
TO AVOID A FEE.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S CORRECT COMMISSIONER
ROSS IF IT&apos;S DENIED A NEW
DESIGN MAY BE SUBMITTED BUT IT
HAS TO BE SUBSTANTIALLY
DIFFERENT THAN THE CURRENT
DESIGNS THREE DIFFERENT.
&gt;&gt; SO IF HE CAN BACK WITH
SOMETHING SIGNIFICANTLY
DIFFERENT AND WE PASS IF IT
DOESN&apos;T COME BACK SIGNIFICANTLY
DIFFERENT, WE WILL PASS IT.
HE HAS TO DO IT WITHIN THE NEXT
TWO WEEKS FLIGHT.
SO I THINK GO AHEAD.
WE TALK ABOUT THREE DIFFERENT
THINGS WERE ARE WE TALKING
ABOUT TWO DIFFERENT METHODS?
&gt;&gt; YEAH, COMMISSIONER, WE&apos;RE
TALKING ABOUT WHETHER OR NOT
THERE SHOULD BE A PROMOTION TO
POSTPONE THIS TO THE JUNE
MEETING RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; AS OPPOSED TO AS OPPOSED TO
TALKING ACTION AND SO I GUESS
IS THAT IS THE COMMISSION
MINABLE TO POSTPONING DO WE
NEED TO MAKE A MOTION?
&gt;&gt; DO WE NEED TO MAKE A MOTION
THAT PASSES TO POSTPONE IT TO
THE JUNE?
LET ME GIVE YOU THE DATE JUNE
NINE HGC MEETING SO
PROCEDURALLY SOMEBODY COULD
MAKE THAT MOTION.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;LL MAKE THE MOTION WE
TABLE OR TWO TWENTY FOUR TO
TWENTY SIX OF MAIN STREET
APPLICATION UNTIL JUNE YOURSELF
A CERTAIN MOTION MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER RIGHT SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER WILSON.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE A DISCUSSION ON THE
MOTION?
I MEAN I GUESS I&apos;M FINE WITH IT
IF THAT&apos;S WHAT I THINK.
SO IT SOUNDS WELL WE&apos;D BE OPEN
TO ARE YOU SAID BEFORE.
&gt;&gt; YEAH WELL I THINK IT&apos;S ABOUT
THAT HAVING TO COME BACK IN THE
FUTURE WITH SOMETHING WE CAN
TALK ABOUT SUBSTANTIALLY
DIFFERENT ADJUSTMENTS AND SOME
MODIFICATIONS WE HEARD YOU KNOW
,WE STUDIED QUITE A LITTLE BIT
CLOSER TO SEE IF WE CAN DROP
THAT DOWN SLIGHTLY OR MAYBE IT
HAS TO BE JUST ONE STORY THAT
WE STUDY THE BUT THAT WOULD BE
SIGNIFICANT ONE SO YOU CAN COME
BACK IN TWO WEEKS WITH STILL A
THIS IS WHERE I THINK THE
QUESTION THE DIFFERENCE LIES
YOU COULD COME BACK WITH SOME
MODIFICATIONS TO WHAT&apos;S
PROPOSED CURRENTLY AND THE
DESIGN SHOWS THAT YOU&apos;VE YOU
KNOW, MAYBE HEARD SOME OF THE
COMMENTS THAT WE&apos;VE MADE LOOKED
AT THE GUIDELINES A LITTLE BIT
FURTHER AND IT MIGHT BE TO BE
SUBSTANTIAL
DIFFERENT.
BUT I THINK IT&apos;S STILL WITHIN
THE REALMS OF WHAT WHAT&apos;S BEING
PROPOSED UM CORRECT ME IF I&apos;M
WRONG.
IS THAT YOUR UM OR IF YOU THINK
YOU KNOW THAT YOU&apos;RE GOING TO
NEED MORE THAN TWO WEEKS IN
ORDER TO DO THAT TO SUBMIT IT
AND COME BACK AND DO YOU THINK
THAT IT&apos;S, YOU KNOW, FEASIBLE
TO JUST GO AHEAD AND REALLY
CHANGE TO THE DESIGN THEN YOU
COULD WAIT.
WHAT I THINK JUST ONE OTHER
CLARIFYING POINT IS IF IF THE
MOTION IS DENIED AND EITHER WAY
THEN TO REAPPLY AGAIN TO DO THE
APPLICATION IT WOULD DEFINITELY
HAVE TO BE SUBSTANTIALLY
DIFFERENT.
RIGHT.
SO THAT I HOPE THAT CLARIFIES
FOR YOU.
&gt;&gt; OK, YEAH.
I RECOMMEND THAT YOU TALK TO
JEFF ARCHER AND HE&apos;S JUST
TAKING NOTES AND THAT THE
INFORMATION THAT WE HAVE A GOOD
HANDLE WHAT NEEDS TO BE HMM.
AND THEN SUBMIT
SO ALL OF WHAT
THE QUESTION I THINK IS YOU
KNOW, THE COMMISSION THE MOTION
ON THE TABLE IS TO POSTPONE THE
APPLICATION IF COMMISSIONERS
FEEL LIKE THAT IS REASONABLE OR
IF THEY WOULD LIKE TO SEE
ADDITIONAL CHANGES TO THEM TO
THE APPLICATION OF THAT WOULD
YOU KNOW, MAKE ANY DIFFERENCE
IN THEIR THEIR THINKING RIGHT.
LIKE THE THE LEVEL OF OR THE
AMOUNT OF SIGNIFICANT CHANGE
THAT&apos;S NEEDED IN OUR MINDS TO
MEET THIS TO BE COMPLIANT IS
THAT EXCEEDING WHAT&apos;S ALLOWED
IN A POSTPONEMENT THIS
APPLICATION?
&gt;&gt; CORRECT.
I DON&apos;T THINK THAT THERE&apos;S I
DON&apos;T THINK YOU CAN EXCEED
WHAT&apos;S ALLOWED IN A
POSTPONEMENT.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, I DON&apos;T HAVE A YES IT
WOULD BE IN A DESIGN.
I MEAN YEAH.
&gt;&gt; AND IT&apos;S IT&apos;S JUST UP TO YOU
GUYS IF YOU WANT TO ENTERTAIN
THAT OR NOT YOU CAN VOTE IN
FAVOR OF THOSE ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR OF THE MOTION PLEASE SAY
YES.
YES YES ALL THOSE OPPOSED
PLEASE SAY NO NO THE MOTION
CARRIES SO THE APPLICATION HAS
BEEN POSTPONED TO THE JUNE 9TH
MEETING TONIGHT.
&gt;&gt; SO DAVID I WILL NEED
REVISIONS UPLOADED INTO STREAM
BY THURSDAY, MAY 26TH.
OK, THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
ON TO ITEM G NEW BUSINESS.
&gt;&gt; WE HAVE A BUNCH OF NEW
BUSINESS TONIGHT.
NO FIRST IS THE ANN ARBOR
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITY
PRESENTATION.
THEA IS HERE.
SHE&apos;S UH SHE&apos;S HERE.
&gt;&gt; WE CAN SEE HER ON THE ZOOM
HIGHCLERE.
&gt;&gt; GOOD EVENING EVERYONE.
SHE&apos;S FROM THE OFFICE
OF SUSTAINABILITY AND CITY HALL
AND WOULD LIKE TO TALK TO YOU
ABOUT SKEWES.
&gt;&gt; TAKE IT AWAY THEA.
I AM I DON&apos;T THINK GENERATE
SCREEN YET WHICH WOULD BE GREAT
.
&gt;&gt; CAN YOU DOES IT GIVE ME THE
OPTION TO OR JUST LET ME TAKE A
LOOK AT DOES PERFECT OK YOU&apos;RE
A CO-HOST GRETE WEGO CAN YOU
SEE THAT OK.
&gt;&gt; YEAH YES GREAT THANKS SO
MUCH AND GOOD EVENING OR ALMOST
NIGHT NOW COMMISSIONERS&apos; THANK
YOU FOR THE CHANCE TO PRESENT
OUR TIME TOGETHER I GOING TO
PROVIDE A BRIEF OVERVIEW
OF WHAT A SUSTAINABLE ENERGY
UTILITY IS AND HOW IT CAN
OPERATE IN ANN ARBOR.
&gt;&gt; AND THEN THE NEXT STEPS THAT
WE&apos;RE LOOKING AT RIGHT NOW AS
BACKGROUND IN ARBOR HAS DONE AN
AMBITIOUS GOAL OF ACHIEVING
ZERO CLIMATE POLLUTION BY THE
YEAR 2030 TO UNDERSTAND HOW TO
ACHIEVE THAT GOAL, IT&apos;S
IMPORTANT UNDERSTAND WHERE OUR
POLLUTION COMES FROM.
SO LOCALLY 40 PERCENT OF ALL
THE POLLUTION NOTED GREENHOUSE
GAS EMISSIONS COME FROM
BUILDING ELECTRICITY USAGE AND
NEARLY TWO THIRDS COME FROM THE
NATURAL GAS THAT&apos;S USED TO HEAT
BUILDING ELECTRICITY USAGE AND
AND COOL OUR BUILDINGS SO GIVEN
NATURAL GAS THAT&apos;S USED TO HEAT
THIS REALITY WE KNOW THAT
AND COOL OUR BUILDINGS SO GIVEN
SOLUTIONS TO REDUCING LOCAL
THIS REALITY WE KNOW THAT
CLIMATE POLLUTION NECESSITATE
SOLUTIONS TO REDUCING LOCAL
FINDING PATHWAYS TO ACHIEVE A
CLIMATE POLLUTION NECESSITATE
CLEAN ELECTRICITY SUPPLY AND
FINDING PATHWAYS TO ACHIEVE A
THEN SUPPORT THE TRANSITION
CLEAN ELECTRICITY SUPPLY AND
AWAY FROM FOSSIL GAS AND
THEN SUPPORT THE TRANSITION
HEATING TO CLEAN ELECTRICITY.
AWAY FROM FOSSIL GAS AND
AS WE LOOK FOR WAYS TO IMPROVE
HEATING TO CLEAN ELECTRICITY.
THE RELIABILITY AND ENERGY MIX
AS WE LOOK FOR WAYS TO IMPROVE
OF OUR ENERGY SUPPLY, IT&apos;S
THE RELIABILITY AND ENERGY MIX
IMPORTANT TO UNDERSTAND THE
OF OUR ENERGY SUPPLY, IT&apos;S
ENERGY LANDSCAPE IN MICHIGAN
IMPORTANT TO UNDERSTAND THE
AND ABACAS WHAT IS KNOWN AS A
ENERGY LANDSCAPE IN MICHIGAN
PRIEFER EXERCISE WHICH MEANS
AND ABACAS WHAT IS KNOWN AS A
THAT DETI INCOME UTILITY HAS
PRIEFER EXERCISE WHICH MEANS
THE RIGHT IN PERPETUITY TO
THAT DETI INCOME UTILITY HAS
PROVIDE POWER TO THE CITY.
THE RIGHT IN PERPETUITY TO
&gt;&gt; HOWEVER, PROTECT FRANCHISES
PROVIDE POWER TO THE CITY.
ARE NOT EXCLUSIVE SO THE
&gt;&gt; HOWEVER, PROTECT FRANCHISES
MICHIGAN CONSTITUTION PROTECTS
ARE NOT EXCLUSIVE SO THE
THE RIGHTS OF CITIES AND
MICHIGAN CONSTITUTION PROTECTS
VILLAGES TO CREATE THEIR OWN
THE RIGHTS OF CITIES AND
UTILITY THIS CAN BE DONE EITHER
VILLAGES TO CREATE THEIR OWN
VIA A TAKING OR WHAT&apos;S CALLED A
UTILITY THIS CAN BE DONE EITHER
CONDEMNATION AND BY THE
VIA A TAKING OR WHAT&apos;S CALLED A
INCUMBENT UTILITY AND
CONDEMNATION AND BY THE
INFRASTRUCTURE OR THE OTHER
INCUMBENT UTILITY AND
CREATION OF A SUPPLEMENTAL
INFRASTRUCTURE OR THE OTHER
UTILITY TO DATE EVERY COMMUNITY
CREATION OF A SUPPLEMENTAL
THAT HAS STARTED THEIR OWN
UTILITY TO DATE EVERY COMMUNITY
LITTLE ELECTRIC UTILITY WITH
THAT HAS STARTED THEIR OWN
MICHIGAN WITH THE LAST BEING
LITTLE ELECTRIC UTILITY WITH
EXELON WHICH WAS ORIGINALLY
MICHIGAN WITH THE LAST BEING
FORMED A NINE TO DID SO BY
EXELON WHICH WAS ORIGINALLY
STARTING UTILITY FROM SCRATCH.
FORMED A NINE TO DID SO BY
SO WHEN SERVICE WAS NOT
STARTING UTILITY FROM SCRATCH.
WIDESPREAD AND YOU CAN IMAGINE
SO WHEN SERVICE WAS NOT
WHY STANDING UP A FULL SET
WIDESPREAD AND YOU CAN IMAGINE
OF POLES AND WIRES TO DIRECTLY
WHY STANDING UP A FULL SET
COMPETE WITH AN EXISTING
OF POLES AND WIRES TO DIRECTLY
UTILITY IS AN EXPENSIVE
COMPETE WITH AN EXISTING
PROPOSITION AS IS BUYING UP
UTILITY IS AN EXPENSIVE
THEIR INFRASTRUCTURE THROUGH
PROPOSITION AS IS BUYING UP
COORDINATION WHICH MEANS YOU
THEIR INFRASTRUCTURE THROUGH
REQUIRE IT A NEW INFRASTRUCTURE
COORDINATION WHICH MEANS YOU
THAT OFTEN IN POOR CONDITION.
REQUIRE IT A NEW INFRASTRUCTURE
&gt;&gt; BUT WHAT IF WE CREATED A
THAT OFTEN IN POOR CONDITION.
COMPLEMENTARY COMMUNITY OWNED
&gt;&gt; BUT WHAT IF WE CREATED A
ENERGY UTILITY THAT PROVIDES
COMPLEMENTARY COMMUNITY OWNED
ELECTRICITY FROM LOCAL SOLAR
ENERGY UTILITY THAT PROVIDES
AND BATTERY STORAGE SYSTEMS
ELECTRICITY FROM LOCAL SOLAR
INSTALLED IN HOMES AND
AND BATTERY STORAGE SYSTEMS
BUSINESSES IN OUR COMMUNITY?
INSTALLED IN HOMES AND
WHAT IS THAT COMMUNITY UTILITY
BUSINESSES IN OUR COMMUNITY?
PROVIDED 100 PERCENT CLEAN
WHAT IS THAT COMMUNITY UTILITY
RELIABLE LOCALLY BUILT AND
PROVIDED 100 PERCENT CLEAN
AFFORDABLE ELECTRICITY BUILT
RELIABLE LOCALLY BUILT AND
RIGHT HERE IN OUR COMMUNITY.
AFFORDABLE ELECTRICITY BUILT
THIS UTILITY WOULD GIVE
RIGHT HERE IN OUR COMMUNITY.
RESIDENTS A CHOICE FOR WHERE
THIS UTILITY WOULD GIVE
THEY PROCURE THEIR ENERGY
RESIDENTS A CHOICE FOR WHERE
OF CHOICE WE DON&apos;T HAVE TODAY
THEY PROCURE THEIR ENERGY
AND THIS WOULD BE A PARALLEL
OF CHOICE WE DON&apos;T HAVE TODAY
UTILITY THAT WOULD NOT
AND THIS WOULD BE A PARALLEL
DUPLICATE THE TRADITIONAL GRID
UTILITY THAT WOULD NOT
WITH ALL OF ITS VULNERABILITIES
DUPLICATE THE TRADITIONAL GRID
BUT FOCUS ON GENERATING CLEAN,
WITH ALL OF ITS VULNERABILITIES
RELIABLE AND AFFORDABLE POWER.
BUT FOCUS ON GENERATING CLEAN,
&gt;&gt; NO SO THAT&apos;S WHAT THE CITY
RELIABLE AND AFFORDABLE POWER.
BANABA IS LOOKING TO DO BEYOND
&gt;&gt; NO SO THAT&apos;S WHAT THE CITY
THE CREATION OF A SUSTAINABLE
BANABA IS LOOKING TO DO BEYOND
ENERGY UTILITY AS ENVISIONED A
THE CREATION OF A SUSTAINABLE
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITY
ENERGY UTILITY AS ENVISIONED A
WOULD FOCUS FIRST ON GENERATING
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITY
LOCAL CLEAN ENERGY SO THAT
WOULD FOCUS FIRST ON GENERATING
ENERGY THAT WOULD BE DIRECTLY
LOCAL CLEAN ENERGY SO THAT
INTO OUR HOMES, BUSINESSES,
ENERGY THAT WOULD BE DIRECTLY
PLACES OF WORSHIP AND COMMUNITY
INTO OUR HOMES, BUSINESSES,
CENTERS.
PLACES OF WORSHIP AND COMMUNITY
THIS CLEAN ENERGY WOULD BE
CENTERS.
PAIRED WITH STORAGE TO HELP
THIS CLEAN ENERGY WOULD BE
IMPROVE ENERGY RELIABILITY AND
PAIRED WITH STORAGE TO HELP
OFTEN IN CONJUNCTION WITH DEEP
IMPROVE ENERGY RELIABILITY AND
ENERGY WASTE REDUCTION PROGRAMS
OFTEN IN CONJUNCTION WITH DEEP
TO HELP OUR RESIDENTS LOWER
ENERGY WASTE REDUCTION PROGRAMS
THEIR ENERGY COSTS AND USAGE
TO HELP OUR RESIDENTS LOWER
ALL WHILE IMPROVING COMFORT ,
THEIR ENERGY COSTS AND USAGE
COMFORT AND THOSE BUILDINGS
ALL WHILE IMPROVING COMFORT ,
UNDER THE CONCEPT OF A
COMFORT AND THOSE BUILDINGS
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITY IS
UNDER THE CONCEPT OF A
GREATER CHOICE PROVIDING
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITY IS
AFFORDABLE RATES ANOTHER WAY TO
GREATER CHOICE PROVIDING
SECURE A LARGE PORTION OF OUR
AFFORDABLE RATES ANOTHER WAY TO
ENERGY THAT&apos;S COMING FROM
SECURE A LARGE PORTION OF OUR
CLEAN, LOCAL, RELIABLE AND
ENERGY THAT&apos;S COMING FROM
RESILIENT SOURCES.
CLEAN, LOCAL, RELIABLE AND
&gt;&gt; THE SUSTAINABLE ENERGY
RESILIENT SOURCES.
UTILITY WOULD ENABLE A LOT MORE
&gt;&gt; THE SUSTAINABLE ENERGY
PEOPLE TO GET THE BENEFIT
UTILITY WOULD ENABLE A LOT MORE
OF SOLAR BY DIRECTLY PAYING FOR
PEOPLE TO GET THE BENEFIT
INSTALLATION AND RESIDENTIAL.
OF SOLAR BY DIRECTLY PAYING FOR
MRS. RESIDENTIAL BUSINESS
INSTALLATION AND RESIDENTIAL.
ROOFS, CARPORTS AND
MRS. RESIDENTIAL BUSINESS
DIAGRAMMATIC SYSTEMS RESIDENTS
ROOFS, CARPORTS AND
WOULDN&apos;T BE THE OWNER OF THAT
DIAGRAMMATIC SYSTEMS RESIDENTS
SOLAR SYSTEM.
WOULDN&apos;T BE THE OWNER OF THAT
&gt;&gt; THE PUBLIC OR THE
SOLAR SYSTEM.
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITY
&gt;&gt; THE PUBLIC OR THE
WOULD.
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITY
RESIDENTS WOULD SUBSCRIBE TO
WOULD.
PURCHASE THEIR ENERGY AT A RATE
RESIDENTS WOULD SUBSCRIBE TO
THAT&apos;S BASED ON THE COST AND
PURCHASE THEIR ENERGY AT A RATE
THE SUSTAINABLE ENERGY
THAT&apos;S BASED ON THE COST AND
UTILITIES OPERATIONAL NEEDS
THE SUSTAINABLE ENERGY
FROM THE SYSTEM AND THEIR THEIR
UTILITIES OPERATIONAL NEEDS
NEIGHBORS ROOFS.
FROM THE SYSTEM AND THEIR THEIR
&gt;&gt; IF ALL THE RESIDENTS POWER&apos;S
NEIGHBORS ROOFS.
NEEDS ARE MET, THE ACCESS
&gt;&gt; IF ALL THE RESIDENTS POWER&apos;S
GENERATION SOLAR PANEL ON THEIR
NEEDS ARE MET, THE ACCESS
PROPERTY FLOWS INTO A BATTERY
GENERATION SOLAR PANEL ON THEIR
SYSTEM.
PROPERTY FLOWS INTO A BATTERY
THIS MEANS THAT RESIDENTS COULD
SYSTEM.
STILL HAVE POWER IF THE BIG
THIS MEANS THAT RESIDENTS COULD
GRID GOES DOWN AND THIS IS
STILL HAVE POWER IF THE BIG
ALREADY POSSIBLE TODAY I MYSELF
GRID GOES DOWN AND THIS IS
ADDITIONALLY THE SEIU WOULD NOT
ALREADY POSSIBLE TODAY I MYSELF
BE LIMITED BY CURRENT UTILITY
ADDITIONALLY THE SEIU WOULD NOT
RESTRICTIONS THAT CONSTRAIN
BE LIMITED BY CURRENT UTILITY
SOLAR SYSTEMS AND THE AMOUNT
RESTRICTIONS THAT CONSTRAIN
OF SOLAR ALLOWED ON THE GRID.
SOLAR SYSTEMS AND THE AMOUNT
SO I&apos;M TALKING ABOUT THE
OF SOLAR ALLOWED ON THE GRID.
CURRENT ONE PERCENT CAP ON
SO I&apos;M TALKING ABOUT THE
DISTRIBUTED RENEWABLE
CURRENT ONE PERCENT CAP ON
GENERATION INSTEAD THE
DISTRIBUTED RENEWABLE
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITY
GENERATION INSTEAD THE
WOULD SEEK TO MAXIMIZE SOLAR
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITY
INSTALLATIONS LEVERAGING ALL
WOULD SEEK TO MAXIMIZE SOLAR
VIABLE ROOF SPACE OVER TIME
INSTALLATIONS LEVERAGING ALL
INDIVIDUAL SOLAR SYSTEMS WOULD
VIABLE ROOF SPACE OVER TIME
BE CONNECTED USING MICROGRID
INDIVIDUAL SOLAR SYSTEMS WOULD
BETWEEN HOUSEHOLDS AND NOT
BE CONNECTED USING MICROGRID
USING BTU&apos;S GRID.
BETWEEN HOUSEHOLDS AND NOT
&gt;&gt; THE SEIU COULD OFFER A
USING BTU&apos;S GRID.
SERIES OF ROBUST ENERGY WASTE
&gt;&gt; THE SEIU COULD OFFER A
PROGRAMS HELPING PEOPLE LOWER
SERIES OF ROBUST ENERGY WASTE
ENERGY DEMAND AND IMPROVE
PROGRAMS HELPING PEOPLE LOWER
COMFORT IN THEIR HOMES AND
ENERGY DEMAND AND IMPROVE
BUSINESSES.
COMFORT IN THEIR HOMES AND
THIS THESE SERVICES WILL BE
BUSINESSES.
AVAILABLE TO ANYONE THAT
THIS THESE SERVICES WILL BE
PARTICIPATES IN THE SUSTAINABLE
AVAILABLE TO ANYONE THAT
ENERGY UTILITY KIND OF LIKE HOW
PARTICIPATES IN THE SUSTAINABLE
ENERGY WASTE ARE OFFERINGS ARE
ENERGY UTILITY KIND OF LIKE HOW
AVAILABLE THROUGH OUR INCUMBENT
ENERGY WASTE ARE OFFERINGS ARE
UTILITY.
AVAILABLE THROUGH OUR INCUMBENT
&gt;&gt; HOWEVER, WE COULD OFFER A
UTILITY.
SLEW OF ADDITIONAL OPTUM
&gt;&gt; HOWEVER, WE COULD OFFER A
SERVICES THAT INDIVIDUALS CAN
SLEW OF ADDITIONAL OPTUM
USE TO IMPROVE HUMPERT, REDUCE
SERVICES THAT INDIVIDUALS CAN
BILLS AND SAVE ENERGY.
USE TO IMPROVE HUMPERT, REDUCE
THESE ADDITIONAL OFFERINGS CAN
BILLS AND SAVE ENERGY.
BE FINANCED THROUGH ANNVILLE
THESE ADDITIONAL OFFERINGS CAN
FINANCE AND THROUGH OUR FINANCE
BE FINANCED THROUGH ANNVILLE
.
FINANCE AND THROUGH OUR FINANCE
&gt;&gt; THE SUSTAINABLE ENERGY
.
UTILITY IS ABLE TO PAY THE
&gt;&gt; THE SUSTAINABLE ENERGY
UPFRONT COSTS OF IMPROVING
UTILITY IS ABLE TO PAY THE
ENERGY EFFICIENCY OR
UPFRONT COSTS OF IMPROVING
ELECTRIFICATION UPGRADES AND
ENERGY EFFICIENCY OR
RESIDENCES PAY BACK THOSE COSTS
ELECTRIFICATION UPGRADES AND
THROUGH THE UTILITY BILLS.
RESIDENCES PAY BACK THOSE COSTS
THIS ALLOWS THE COST
THROUGH THE UTILITY BILLS.
OF IMPROVEMENTS TO STAY WITH AT
THIS ALLOWS THE COST
HOME TO THE RESIDENT AND HELPS
OF IMPROVEMENTS TO STAY WITH AT
REDUCE THE INITIAL UPFRONT COST
HOME TO THE RESIDENT AND HELPS
NEED TO MAKE IMPROVEMENTS.
REDUCE THE INITIAL UPFRONT COST
THIS MAKES THESE TYPES
NEED TO MAKE IMPROVEMENTS.
OF INVESTMENTS MUCH MORE
THIS MAKES THESE TYPES
ACCESSIBLE ALLOWING RESIDENTS
OF INVESTMENTS MUCH MORE
ESPECIALLY LOW INCOME
ACCESSIBLE ALLOWING RESIDENTS
INDIVIDUALS AND RENTERS
ESPECIALLY LOW INCOME
INDIVIDUALS HISTORICALLY
INDIVIDUALS AND RENTERS
EMITTED FOR MOST UTILITY
INDIVIDUALS HISTORICALLY
PROGRAMS THE EU WILL
ALSO
PROVIDE SUPPORT FOR BENEFICIAL
ELECTRIFICATION ENSURING WE
HAVE SAFER, MORE COMFORTABLE
AND CLEANER HOMES AND
BUSINESSES AND EVENTUALLY
OPPORTUNITIES PROGRAMS SO THAT
INDIVIDUALS WITH THAT VIABLE
SOLAR ACCESS CAN STILL HAVE
THOSE BENEFITS.
&gt;&gt; A CLEAN ENERGY THERE WAS A
LOT TO DIGEST.
SO LET ME REITERATE WHAT THE
CORE OF SUSTAINABLE ENERGY
UTILITY IS THAT THE SUSTAINABLE
ENERGY UTILITY IS A COMMUNITY
OWNED UTILITY THAT FOCUSES ON
GENERATING LOCAL CLEAN AND
RELIABLE ENERGY DOING SO FAST.
IT&apos;S ABOUT LEVERAGING EXISTING
TECHNOLOGIES OR PRACTICES SUCH
AS SOLAR AND STORAGE TO REDUCE
EMISSIONS QUICKLY WHILE
IMPROVING RELIABILITY.
IT&apos;S ABOUT ENSURING THAT ALL TO
GET ACCESS TO SOLUTIONS TO
IMPROVE COMFORT , REDUCE BILLS
AND REAP THE BENEFITS OF A
CLEAN ENERGY ECONOMY.
THE SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITY,
AS I MENTIONED BEFORE, IS ABOUT
GENERATING LOCALLY OWNED
RELIABLE, CLEAN AND AFFORDABLE
ENERGY BECAUSE WE ARE GENERALLY
GENERATING IT LOCALLY.
WE DON&apos;T GET A LARGE AND
VULNERABLE DISTRIBUTION
NETWORK.
THIS ALSO MEANS WE DON&apos;T HAVE
TO WORRY ABOUT BUYING A LOT
OF POLES AND WIRES OR ABOUT
EXTREME WEATHER EVENTS KNOCKING
THE SUPPLY OF UTILITIES SUPPLY
POWER OUT INSTEAD WE CAN FOCUS
ON GENERATING CLEAN, RELIABLE
LOCAL ENERGY FAST AND REDUCING
POLLUTION RAPIDLY TO CLOSE OUT.
I&apos;D LIKE TO SHARE A FEW
EXAMPLES OF HOW THIS
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY WOULD WORK.
&gt;&gt; THIS ISN&apos;T MEANT TO BE AN
ALL INCLUSIVE LIST BUT JUST
SOME EXAMPLES FOR HOW SOME
OF THE CONCEPTS I DISCUSSED
COULD WORK IN PRACTICE.
SO I&apos;LL START WITH AN EXAMPLE
OF A HOMEOWNER OR BUSINESS
OWNER THAT HAS GOOD POTENTIAL
BUT DOESN&apos;T HAVE THE CAPITAL OR
ABILITY TO INSTALL SOLAR ROOF.
&gt;&gt; IN THIS CASE THE INDIVIDUAL
WOULD SUBSCRIBE OR ROLE AND THE
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITY AS A
SUPPLEMENTAL UTILITY THE
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITY
WOULD WORK WITH THAT HOMEOWNER
TO CONDUCT A NEEDS ASSESSMENT
AND IDENTIFY POTENTIAL ENERGY
PRODUCTION AND ELECTRIFICATION
OPPORTUNITIES.
SELECTED OPPORTUNITIES WOULD BE
IMPLEMENTED AND THE HOMEOWNER
WOULD HAVE THE OPTION
OF FINANCING THOSE THROUGH THIS
AND UTILITIES ON BILL FINANCE
PROGRAM THE SUSTAINABLE ENERGY
UTILITY WOULD STRIVE TO CREATE
A FINANCE PACKAGE FOR THE
ELECTRIC BILL IS THE SAME OR
IDEALLY LESS THAN WHAT IT&apos;S
CURRENTLY PAID.
ONCE THOSE ARE PAID OFF, THE
RESIDENT REAPS THE FULL
BENEFITS OF THE CURRENT
CONCURRENT WITH THE ABOVE THE
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITY
INSTALLS ON THE ROOF.
THE RESIDENT PAYS THEIR ENERGY
BILL AS THEY ALWAYS PAY PER
KILOWATT HOUR OF USAGE
GENERATED FROM THE SOLAR SYSTEM
ANY ADDITIONAL POWER THEY DRAW
WOULD THEN BE PAID DIRECTLY SO
THE THAT IT WOULD HAVE TO BUILD
THE SUSTAINABLE FACILITY GO FOR
THE ENERGY USE FROM THE SOLAR
SYSTEM AND THE DTV DRAWN FROM
THE GRID.
LOOKING AT ANOTHER EXAMPLE
OF HOW ABOUT A RESIDENT OR A
BUSINESS THAT&apos;S INTERESTED IN
ENERGY WASTE PRODUCTION AND
BENEFICIAL ELECTRIFICATION
OFFERINGS BUT THEY CAN&apos;T AFFORD
SOLAR OR THEY CAN&apos;T INSTALL
SOLAR MAYBE BECAUSE THEY HAVE
SOME BEAUTIFUL BEAUTIFUL TREES
THAT BLOCK SOLAR ACCESS.
&gt;&gt; IN THIS CASE THAT INDIVIDUAL
WOULD RECEIVE AN ONSITE
ASSESSMENT TO IDENTIFY ENERGY
WASTE REDUCTION AND BENEFICIAL
EXECUTION OPPORTUNITIES.
THE INDIVIDUAL WOULD CHOOSE
WHICH OPTIONS TO MOVE FORWARD
WITH AND WOULD HAVE THE OPTION
OF FINANCING THEM THROUGH
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY FACILITIES
ON BILL FINANCING MECHANISM.
THE INDIVIDUAL COULD ALSO
REGISTER TO JOIN A MICRO OR
NANO GRID WHERE THEY SHARE
POWER WITH RESIDENTS THAT HAVE
BETTER SOLAR POTENTIAL.
ONCE A CRITICAL NUMBER
OF NEIGHBORS HAVE SIGNED FOR
THE STATEWIDE UTILITY, THE
INDIVIDUAL WOULD RECEIVE TWO
BILLS LIKE THIS FOR EXAMPLE
BEFORE ONE FOR THE PORTION
OF IMPROVEMENTS FINANCED VIA
IDEAL FINANCING THE SUSTAINABLE
ENERGY UTILITY AND ONE FOR THE
ENERGY PEOPLE FROM A THIRD
EXAMPLE IS THE PRESIDENT WHO
ALREADY HAS SOLAR IN THE HOME
OR BUSINESS IN THIS CASE THE
RESIDENT COULD STILL TAKE
ADVANTAGE OF ALL OF THE ENERGY
WASTE REDUCTION AND BENEFICIAL
APPLICATION SUPPORT ARE PART
OF THE SUSTAINABLE ENERGY
UTILITY AND LEVERAGE FINANCING
TO PAY FOR THOSE IMPROVEMENTS
THIS PRESIDENT COULD ALSO
ENROLL FOR A BATTERY IF THEY
DON&apos;T CURRENTLY HAVE ONE THEY
CAN ALSO ENROLL IN THE
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITY AND
SELL THEIR ACCESS POWER BACK TO
IT SO THAT IT CAN BE
DISTRIBUTED THROUGH THIS LOCAL
MICRODATA GRIBBS GRID I
INTRODUCED BEFORE.
SO ESSENTIALLY SHARING THEM
WITH THEIR NEIGHBORS THE RATES
FOR ENERGY BEING SOLD TO THE
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITY
WOULD STILL NEED TO BE
DETERMINED BY THE INTENT IS TO
GET AS CLOSE TO NET METERING AS
POSSIBLE AND THIS WAY THE
PRESIDENT IS HELPING TO PROVIDE
POWER TO THE ENERGY UTILITY AND
TO THEIR NEIGHBORHOODS.
FOR EXAMPLE IS A MULTI FAMILY
RENTAL IN THIS CASE THE
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITY
WOULD WORK CLOSELY WITH
LANDLORDS AND PROPERTY OWNERS
AND TENANT TO CUSTOMIZE
SOLUTIONS THAN THE INDIVIDUAL
NEEDS.
RENTAL UNITS ARE ELIGIBLE FOR
ALL SUSTAINABLE UTILITY
OFFERINGS.
SO THAT&apos;S ENERGY WASTE
REDUCTION IN SOLAR STORAGE
INSTALLATION BENEFITS,
ELECTRIFICATION AND EVENTUALLY
BEING TIED TO LOCAL OR GRID.
&gt;&gt; THE CITIES WORK ON PREMISES
PAIRED WITH UNPEEL FINANCING
TOOLS OFFERED THE SUSTAINABLE
ENERGY UTILITY HELP ENSURE THE
COST OF IMPROVEMENTS STAY WITH
THE BUILDING AND ALLOW THE COST
OF IMPROVEMENTS TO BE SPREAD
OVER LONGER PERIODS OF TIME
THEREBY OFFERING THE
OPPORTUNITY FOR IMMEDIATE
HEALTH SAFETY AND
COMFORT IMPROVEMENTS AT
REASONABLE COST.
AND IN THE FINAL EXAMPLE TO GO
THROUGH IS COMMUNITY SOLAR.
IN SOME CASES INDIVIDUALS WILL
NOT HAVE ACCESS TO ONSITE
RENEWABLE ENERGY GENERATION AND
THESE CASES OFFSET SOLAR WILL
BE INSTALLED IN COMMON AREAS
SUCH AS PARKING LOTS, SCHOOL
ROOFTOPS, PARKS OR OTHER SHARED
SPACES.
INDIVIDUALS CAN SUBSCRIBE TO
TAKE A PORTION OF THIS ENERGY
TO HELP POWER THEIR LIFE AND
THEIR BUSINESS IN THIS WAY.
&gt;&gt; ANYONE IN THE COMMUNITY
PARTICIPATE IN THE SUSTAINABLE
ENERGY UTILITY EVEN IF THEY
DON&apos;T HAVE THEIR OWN HOME OR
THEY DON&apos;T HAVE VIABLE SOLAR
PANELS ON SITE INDIVIDUALS
SUBSCRIBERS TO THE COMMUNITY
SOLAR OFFERING PER KILOWATT
HOUR USAGE DIRECTED AT
SUSTAINABLE AREAS UTILITY AND
THEN PAY FOR AND THEN PAY DTT
FOR ANY POWER THEY FROM THAT
UTILITY.
&gt;&gt; SO THOSE ARE THE HANDFUL
OF EXAMPLES OF HOW A PROPOSED
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITY
COULD WORK.
TO FIND OUT MORE YOU CAN IS IT
A TWO GUBJRG FOUR AGREE TO
SEE YOU IF YOU&apos;RE INTERESTED IN
SEEING THE CITY MOVE FORWARD
WITH AN ETS YOU PLEASE REGISTER
YOUR INTEREST BY TAKING A SHORT
FIVE QUESTION SURVEY THAT ON
THE SECOND BULLET I BELIEVE YOU
CAN ALSO ACCESS THAT FROM THE
FIRST YOU WERE OUT AND IF YOU
HAVE ANY ADDITIONAL QUESTIONS
PLEASE SEND SUSTAINABILITY AT
EIGHT TO GOV. DOUG OOPS.
&gt;&gt; SO THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR
LETTING ME RUN THROUGH THIS AND
THE PROPOSED SUSTAINABLE ENERGY
UTILITY A CLEAN, RELIABLE
LOCALLY BUILT AND AFFORDABLE
WAY TO PARK COMMUNITY AND I AM
GOING TO STOP SHARING MY SCREEN
AND SEE IF WE HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS.
CAN I GET A BROCHURE?
&gt;&gt; YOU HAD ONE AT THE CITY HALL
?
&gt;&gt; WE DON&apos;T HAVE ONE PRINTED
OUT BUT WE DO HAVE ALL THIS
INFORMATION AND MORE SHORT
VIDEOS, LOG VIDEOS AND IF YOU
DOCUMENT IS ALL YOU GOT DOUG
FORD, I SEE YOU OK THANK YOU
VERY MUCH.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
YOU&apos;RE WELCOME.
MR YEAH I HAVE A QUESTION THAT
WAS GREAT PRESENTATION.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
VERY EXCITING INFORMATION TO
SHARE I GUESS I&apos;M JUST THINKING
OF HOW IT&apos;S RELATING HERE AND
SO MY QUESTION IS WHEN YOU&apos;RE
PART OF THE COMMUNITY SOLAR OR
MICROGRID OR YOU&apos;VE GOT SOME
OFFSITE BATTERY STORAGE WILL
LET&apos;S JUST SAY A FOCUS ON A
HOUSE LIKE A SINGLE FAMILY
HOUSE WILL THAT HOUSE HAVE
ANOTHER POWER LINE COMING TO
THE HOUSE AND ANOTHER METER ON
THE OUTSIDE OF THE HOUSE FOR
THE SIU?
&gt;&gt; SORRY, IT&apos;S HELPFUL YOU&apos;RE
LOOKING AT FIRST BUT I&apos;M NOT
ENTIRELY SURE EXACTLY WHAT IT
WOULD LOOK LIKE.
WE&apos;RE NOT QUITE AT THE STAGE
YET OF DOING A FULL ANALYSIS AT
THAT LEVEL BUT BUT YES THERE
WOULD BE A SEPARATE SET
OF INFRASTRUCTURE THAT A
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITY
WOULD OPERATE ON WHICH WOULD BE
YOU KNOW, SEPARATE WIRES.
I WOULDN&apos;T SHARE WHY I WOULD BE
YOU KNOW, LIKELY SEPARATE SO SO
THANK
THANK YOU FOR THE
PRESENTATION.
LOTS OF REALLY GOOD
INFORMATION.
REALLY INTERESTING.
UM, I&apos;M CURIOUS TO SEE YOU
KNOW, I THINK FOLLOWING UP ON
COMMISSIONER ROCKLANDS QUESTION
HOW IT REALLY ACTUALLY STARTS
TO PLAY OUT AND HOW THE
INFRASTRUCTURE UM STARTS TO
PLAY INTO WHAT WE HAVE EXISTING
I THINK THERE&apos;S A LOT OF UM
INTEREST IN WHAT A NEW GRID CAN
BE AND WHAT IT CAN LOOK LIKE.
SO I THINK THIS IS A REALLY
NICE PRESENTATION.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS
COMMISSIONER&apos;S COMING.
&gt;&gt; OK, THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR
YOUR THANKS.
THANK YOU.
WE HAVE ANOTHER PRESENTATION ON
THE TWO ON THE WRONG
HAYDEN
HOUSE.
&gt;&gt; YES.
NO PRESENTATION BUT IN YOUR
PACKET IS THE HAYDEN HOUSE
STUDY COMMITTEE PRELIMINARY
REPORT.
THIS WAS APPROVED BY THE STUDY
COMMITTEE OF WHOM COMMISSIONERS
WILLIS AND ROSS ARE MEMBERS ON
APRIL TWENTY SIX AND IT WENT
OUT FOR DISTRIBUTION THAT SAME
DAY IT WENT TO THE STATE
MICHIGAN HISTORIC CENTER.
&gt;&gt; THE REVIEW BOARD AND ALSO TO
PLANNING COMMISSION HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION AND
SOMEBODY THAT I&apos;M THINKING
OF RIGHT NOW BUT WENT OUT TO
EVERYBODY WHO NEEDED A COPY.
IT&apos;S ON THE WEBSITE WE&apos;VE WE&apos;VE
TRIED TO TWEET IT OUT, GET THE
WORD OUT BECAUSE NOW IS THE
COMMENT PERIOD.
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;VE GOT 60 DAYS IT&apos;S GOING
TO GO TO THE REVIEW BOARD AT
THEIR MAY MEETING.
SO THAT&apos;S COMING UP SOON AND WE
SHOULD BE GETTING MORE
INFORMATION BACK FROM THEM SOON
THE SHIP WILL BE BORN.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, I SEE HISTORIC
PRESERVATION REVIEW BOARD.
YEAH.
AND ONCE THE SIXTY OR SEVENTY
FOUR DAYS IS UP I&apos;M NOT SURE
WHICH THE LOCAL AND WHICH IS
THE STATE WAITING PERIOD IT
COMMENTS WILL BE CONSIDERED AN
INCORPORATED AND THEN THE WHOLE
THING WILL GO TO CITY COUNCIL
AND THEY WILL HAVE UNTIL I
BELIEVE APRIL TWENTY SIXTH
TWENTY TWENTY THREE TO CONSIDER
THE REPORT AND TAKE ACTION ON
IT OR NOT TAKE ACTION AND DO
NOTHING AND THEN IT JUST CEASES
TO BE AN AREA BEING STUDIED BUT
I&apos;M NOT ANTICIPATING THAT
THAT&apos;S GOING TO HAPPEN.
I HAVE NO INDICATION OF IT SO
THAT&apos;S WHERE WE ARE RIGHT NOW.
IF YOU READ THE PART OF THE
REPORT THAT WAS ATTACHED IN THE
THE DIGITAL RECORD, PLEASE GIVE
ME COMMENTS IF YOU HAVE
QUESTIONS IF THINGS NEED TO BE
CLARIFIED, IF YOU THINK THERE
ARE AREAS THAT SHOULD BE
IMPROVED UPON ARE BEEFED UP.
IT&apos;S A VERY INTERESTING REPORT
AND IT&apos;S VERY WELL ON AND I
WOULD LIKE TO COMMEND THE
CONSULTANT WHO&apos;S BEEN WORKING
AT IT, TIM BUSCAINO AS WELL AS
THE THE STUDY COMMITTEE WHO&apos;VE
GIVEN EXCELLENT FEEDBACK AND
AND GIVEN OF THEMSELVES TO MAKE
THIS A GOOD REPORT.
SO THAT&apos;S IT UNLESS YOU HAVE
QUESTIONS
AND IF YOU WANT TO
MOVE RIGHT ON TO FIVE THIRTY
SEVEN ELIZABETH I DO HAVE A
SHORT PRESENTATION FOR THIS
ONE.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS A REQUEST FOR A
HISTORIC PLAC AND HERE WE ARE.
&gt;&gt; SORRY I WENT TOO FAST.
OK, THIS ISN&apos;T THE OLD FOURTH
HISTORIC DISTRICT.
&gt;&gt; ELIZABETH STREET IS ACROSS
THE STREET FROM ST. THOMAS.
THIS IS A VERY COOL, VERY
HISTORIC HOUSE.
IT&apos;S THE 1878 THOMAS FICKELL
HOUSE.
&gt;&gt; YOU CAN SEE THAT IT HAS VERY
RARE AND UNIQUE LATTICE TYPE
TRIM WITH VERY COOL BRACKETS
AND THESE THESE OPEN PORCH
POSTS THAT I REALLY JUST LIKE
TO I FIRST BEEN HOLLOWED OUT IN
THE MIDDLE NOT EVEN TWO BY
FOURS BECAUSE IT&apos;S THE TRIM IS
SO OLD IT&apos;S AN ITALIANATE HOUSE
THAT&apos;S HAD THIS ADDED TO IT AT
SOME POINT YOU COULD SEE THAT
IT HAS NEAT HOOD MOLD MOLD OVER
THE WINDOWS AND THERE IS
DECORATIVE SCROLL WORK ON TOP
OF THAT THAT I THINK WILL SHOW
UP BETTER IN A MINUTE.
WHAT YOU&apos;RE CONSIDERING THERE&apos;S
A THERE&apos;S A MEMO IN FROM STAFF
JUST OUTLINING THE WAYS THAT IT
MET THE CRITERIA IN MY OPINION
TO RECEIVE A CITY OF ANN ARBOR
AUTHORIZATION FOR A BRONZE
PLAQUE.
AND IF YOU&apos;RE NOT IN A NATIONAL
REGISTER DISTRICT OR STAND ON
NATIONAL REGISTER BUILDING OR
ON THE FORMER HP INDIVIDUAL
HISTORIC PROPERTIES LIST, YOU
NEED TO GET THAT APPROVED BY
THE DC OR THE OTHER WAY YOU CAN
YOU CAN YOU CAN QUALIFY FOR ONE
IS TO GET AN AWARD FROM THE DC
SO THIS BUILDING AT SEVENTY
EIGHT IS VERY LOVELY.
IT HAS A STONE FOUNDATION.
IT HAS A FEW MODERN ADDITIONS
TO IT LIKE YOU CAN SEE THERE&apos;S
EGRESS WINDOW HERE I BELIEVE
IT&apos;S CURRENTLY A THREE UNIT
BUILDING.
A LOT OF IT&apos;S INTACT THOUGH
THERE IS THIS THIS TWO STOREY
DECK ON THE BACK BUT THE WAY I
LOOK AT THAT IT&apos;S COMPLETELY
OUT OF SIDE FROM THE STREET
WHICH IS ONE OF THE CRITERIA
AND IT IS EXTREMELY REMOVABLE
AND REVERSIBLE.
OH, JUST FOR FUN THE OWNER
ADDED THESE THESE PHOTOS OF HIS
FOUR CAR TAXI GARAGE FROM THE
BACK WHICH I JUST LOVE I DON&apos;T
KNOW WHEN THIS WAS ADDED
PROBABLY SOMETIME BETWEEN
TWENTY FIVE AND FORTY BUT IT&apos;S
JUST A NEAT LITTLE BUILDING
ALSO A VERY HISTORIC HERE&apos;S THE
FRONT THE OTHER NON ORIGINAL
FEATURE THAT&apos;S PROMINENT ON
HERE IS THIS FRONT STOOP I WISH
IT WERE PAINTED BUT OTHER THAN
THAT IT MEETS THE CRITERIA FOR
WHAT A NEW STOOP COULD LOOK
LIKE.
IT&apos;S GOT THE CORRECT KINDS
OF GUARDRAILS IT&apos;S GOT CLOSED
RISERS.
IT&apos;S GOT SKIRTING ON THE SIDES.
IT&apos;S NOT PRETENDING TO BE
HISTORIC BECAUSE IT&apos;S NOT AND
WE DON&apos;T KNOW WHAT IT LOOKED
LIKE THEIR ORIGINAL.
SO THAT&apos;S SORT OF A VERY
MINIMAL DESIGN AND REALLY STAFF
RECOMMENDS APPROVAL OF THIS
APPLICATION.
I THINK IT&apos;S A SWEET HOUSE AND
AND VERY HISTORIC AND WORTH
MEMORIALIZING ALSO THE OWNER IS
THE ONE WHO WOULD HAVE TO PAY
FOR THE THE BRONZE PLAQUE THAT
THEY&apos;RE MADE AT ARNETT&apos;S ON A
TEMPLATE THAT WE HAVE WITH
ARNOTTS AND THEY HAVEN&apos;T GOTTEN
BACK TO ME YET ON HOW MUCH A
NEW ONE WILL COST.
&gt;&gt; LAST I HEARD THERE ABOUT TWO
HUNDRED AND SEVENTY FIVE
DOLLARS BUT THAT WAS PROBABLY
FOUR OR FIVE YEARS AGO SO I&apos;M
SURE YOU NEED A MOVE.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M BRACING MYSELF FOR WHAT
THIS MIGHT COST FOR THIS OWNER
IF IT&apos;S APPROVED.
YES, A MOTION WOULD BE IN
ORDER.
&gt;&gt; I MAKE A MOTION THAT IN THE
LIVE ELIZABETH GIVE THE SWORD
DISTRICT PLUS SUPPORT BACK
COMMISSIONER WYATT CHECK IN THE
BACK MR ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY
YES, YES, YES, YES.
&gt;&gt; ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY
NO THE MOTION CARRIES THANK YOU
ALL FOR NEW BUSINESS RIGHT TO
MEET APPROVAL MINUTES EVERYBODY
RECEIVE THE MINUTES FROM THE ME
I&apos;M GOOD WITH IT.
I&apos;M GOOD GOOD GOOD OK MINUTES
ARE APPROVED AS PRESENTED
ITEMIZED REPORTS FROM
COMMITTERS WINNING
COMMISSIONERS HAVE ANYTHING
YOU&apos;D LIKE TO SHARE?
I DO.
I FORGOT THAT I DID BUT I DO IF
I MAY SO I JUST HAVE TO LOOK AT
SOMETHING REALLY QUICKLY.
BUT I THAT ELECTRIFICATION
DISCUSSION THAT I WAS PLANNING
THE WEATHER WAS PARTICULARLY
HORRIBLE THAT DAY I WAS LIKE
FORTY DEGREES AND IT&apos;S AN
OUTDOOR EVENT AT THE DISTILLERY
SO IT&apos;S BEEN RESCHEDULED MAY
TWENTY FOURTH THAT&apos;S A TUESDAY
EVENING SIX O&apos;CLOCK AT THE ANN
ARBOR DISTILLERY.
&gt;&gt; SO THANK ELECTRIFICATION
FANS COME OUT AND HAVE A DRINK
FOR THAT ONE.
&gt;&gt; THANKS.
THANK YOU.
ON OH GO AHEAD.
I WAS WONDERING IT WAS QUITE
COLD THAT DAY AND OVERCAST
UNTIL ADAM ASSIGNMENTS FOR A
REVIEW COMMITTEE ON MONDAY,
JUNE SIX FIVE PM FOR THE JUNE
9TH VOLUNTEER CHILL.
I THINK I CAN DO THAT.
OK, YES.
I DON&apos;T DO MR. WILLIS FOUNTAIN
OK OK JESSICA AND BETH THANK
YOU.
&gt;&gt; I LIKE IT WHEN YOU ALL RACED
AGAINST ME FIRST UM REPORTS
FROM STAFF I DIDN&apos;T SEE
ANYTHING IN THE I DON&apos;T THINK
THERE&apos;S AN ACTUAL STAFF
ACTIVITIES REPORT BECAUSE WE
HAVEN&apos;T FIGURED OUT HOW TO GET
IT OUT OF OUR NEW TRACKING
STREAM SYSTEM YET.
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;VE GOT A REQUEST IN FOR
THAT BUT WE&apos;LL SEE WHEN THAT
HAPPENS.
ONE OTHER THING THAT I WANT TO
REPORT IS I&apos;M GOING OUT ON A
SHORT MEDICAL LEAVE STARTING
NEXT TUESDAY.
I&apos;LL BE OUT FOR THREE WEEKS
THAT WILL PUT ME BACK LIKE THE
DAY AFTER THE REVIEW COMMITTEE
MEETING.
&gt;&gt; SO ALEXIS OLEO WILL BE
FILLING IN FOR ME WHILE I&apos;M
GONE.
SO IF YOU HAVE QUESTIONS OR
CONCERNS OR OTHER PEOPLE DO
SEND THEM TO ALEXIS AND YOU
KNOW SHE&apos;S REACHABLE BY CITY
HALL PHONE OR EMAIL AND IT&apos;S
SURGERY ON MY HAND.
IT&apos;S NOTHING LIFE THREATENING
THAT IT&apos;S THE BEST KIND
OF SURGERY.
NO ORGANS ARE INVOLVED.
THAT&apos;S IT FOR STAFF.
THANK YOU.
ITEM CONCERNS OF COMMISSIONERS
AND COMMISSIONERS LIKE TO SHARE
ANY CONCERNS OR ISSUES ITEM IN
COMMUNICATIONS.
I DON&apos;T BELIEVE THERE WERE ANY
COMMUNICATIONS TO THE HPC.
NO RIGHT THEN ON TO ADJOURNMENT
NOW ADJOURNED MAY WELL TWENTY
TWENTY TWO MEETING IN OUR
HISTORIC DISTRICT